[Jump to content](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-
policy.html#content)[Posters ‘General hygiene measures’, ‘obligation to wear a
face covering’ and ‘airing of rooms’](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-
hygiene-policy.html#c453067)[Coronavirus / SARS-CoV-2 /
COVID-19](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-
policy.html#c453058)[How do you recognise the disease?](covid-19-suspected-
and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy.html#c453059)[How can we protect
ourselves?](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-
policy.html#c453060)[What should I do if I feel ill?](covid-19-suspected-and-
confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy.html#c453061)[What should I do if I had contact
with an infected person or a person who is suspected to have contracted
COVID-19?](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-
policy.html#c453062)[Important telephone numbers and
addresses](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-
policy.html#c453064)[Hygiene policy](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-
hygiene-policy.html#c453066)[Who is most at risk?](covid-19-suspected-and-
confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy.html#c453063)[HHU coronavirus information
videos](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-
policy.html#c453065)["COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy"
topic group](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-
policy.html#c438660)[Main points in brief on COVID-19 and on handling
suspected and confirmed cases](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-
policy.html#c439137)[COVID-19](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-
policy.html#c453068)[Still have questions?](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-
cases-hygiene-policy.html#c439138)[Main points in brief on COVID-19 and on
handling suspected and confirmed cases](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-
cases-hygiene-policy.html#c439136)[As a supervisor – how do I proceed if one
of my employees reports a (suspected) infection with
COVID-19?](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy.html#c0)

  * [DE](../hygienekonzept.html)
  * EN
  * |[Intranet](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/ "Intranet")
  * |[Portals](https://portale.uni-duesseldorf.de "Portals")

  * [](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
  * [](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/ "LinkedIn")
  * [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw "YouTube")
  * [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
  * [](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

[![Logo Heinrich-Heine-Universität
Düsseldorf](https://www.corona.hhu.de/typo3conf/ext/wiminno/Resources/Public/img/hhu_logo.png)](https://www.hhu.de/en/)

[![Logo Heinrich-Heine-Universität
Düsseldorf](https://www.corona.hhu.de/typo3conf/ext/wiminno/Resources/Public/img/hhu_logo_mobil.png)](https://www.hhu.de)

Willkommen!

  * [HHU information on coronavirus](index.html)
    * [Information ...](index.html)
    * [for students](for-students.html)
    * [for lecturers](for-lecturers.html)
    * [on research](research.html)
    * [for employees](for-employees.html)
    * [on university operations](university-operations.html)
      * [Handlungsleitfaden Gremienarbeit](zum-universitaetsbetrieb/standard-titel.html)
    * [on COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy)

[](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
[](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/
"LinkedIn") [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw
"YouTube") [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
[](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

  * [DE](../hygienekonzept.html)
  * EN
  * [Intranet](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/)

  * [Contact](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/contact-and-services)
  * [Imprint](https://www.hhu.de/en/imprint)
  * [Privacy statement](https://www.hhu.de/datenschutzerklaerung)
  * [Barrierefreiheit](https://www.hhu.de/en/erklaerung-zur-barrierefreiheit)
  * [Emergency](https://www.hhu.de/en/emergency-1)
  * [ Press](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/press-and-marketing/press-contact-persons)

© 2020 Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

  * HHU information on coronavirus

[To homepage: HHU information on coronavirus](index.html)

    * [Information ...](index.html)
    * [for students](for-students.html)
    * [for lecturers](for-lecturers.html)
    * [on research](research.html)
    * [for employees](for-employees.html)
    * [on university operations](university-operations.html)
      * [Handlungsleitfaden Gremienarbeit](zum-universitaetsbetrieb/standard-titel.html)
    * [on COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy)

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACwAAAAAAQABAAA=)

[HHU](https://www.hhu.de/en/)[HHU information on coronavirus](index.html) **on
COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy**

# COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy

## "COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy" topic group

## Main points in brief on COVID-19 and on handling suspected and confirmed
cases

  * Close contacts are those who have had face-to-face contact for at least 15 minutes cumulatively with a person ill with COVID-19 or those who had direct contact with secretions or bodily fluids of a confirmed case of COVID-19. The definition of ‘close contact’ may also apply if a person was very likely exposed to a high concentration of aerosols in a room (e.g. at parties, when singing together or doing sports inside in rooms without adequate ventilation).
  * Such close contacts must follow the instructions on this site [ instructions of this page.](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy/covid-19-sitemap/corona-19-inhalte/what-should-i-do-if-i-had-contact-with-an-infected-person-or-a-person-who-is-suspected-to-have-contracted-covid-19/what-should.html)

Last updated: 30 October 2020: Coronavirus / SARS-Cov-2 / COVID-19; How do you
recognise the disease? How can we protect ourselves?; What should I do if I
feel ill?; important telephone numbers and contact addresses; hygiene policy /
hygiene measures at HHU.

## COVID-19

## [ Coronavirus / SARS-CoV-2 / COVID-19 ](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-
cases-hygiene-policy.html#)

## Coronavirus / SARS-CoV-2 / COVID-19

[Last updated: 30 October 2020]

Coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 causes the disease COVID-19 (Coronavirus Disease 2019).
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organization WHO declared the worldwide
spread of COVID-19 a pandemic. The Robert Koch Institute has assessed the risk
level for Germany as high overall (as of 26 March 2020).

The management of Heinrich Heine University (HHU) has set up a task force
which meets regularly. In addition, the University’s management is in constant
contact with the faculties, the central facilities, the university management,
the Düsseldorf University Hospital (UKD) management as well as the responsible
authorities and continuously re-assesses the situation following the
recommendations made by the Robert Koch Institute (RKI), the local Düsseldorf
health authorities and the State and Federal Ministries of Health. 

## [ How do you recognise the disease? ](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-
cases-hygiene-policy.html#)

## How do you recognise the disease?

[Last updated: 30 October 2020]

As with other respiratory pathogens, an infection with the novel coronavirus
can lead to symptoms such as coughing, rhinitis, sore throat, fever and newly
occurring shortness of breath; some patients may also suffer from diarrhoea.
Sense of smell and/or of taste may also be affected.

  * In some patients, the infection appears to take a severe course, leading to respiratory problems and pneumonia. Deaths occurred mainly in elderly patients and/or patients with pre-existing, chronic health conditions. The definition of ‘close contact’ may also apply if a person was very likely exposed to a high concentration of aerosols in a room (e.g. at parties, when singing together or doing sports inside in rooms without adequate ventilation). For more information [visit this RKI site on hospitalised COVID-19 patients](https://www.rki.de/DE/Content/InfAZ/N/Neuartiges_Coronavirus/Steckbrief.html#doc13776792bodyText12) and also their [epidemiologic bulletin 41/2020](https://www.rki.de/DE/Content/Infekt/EpidBull/Archiv/2020/Ausgaben/41_20.pdf?__blob=publicationFile).

## [ How can we protect ourselves? ](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-
hygiene-policy.html#)

## How can we protect ourselves?

[Last updated: 30 October 2020]

There are currently no specific precautionary measures (such as
vaccinations/medicinal prophylaxis) that can be taken to prevent infection
with the novel coronavirus.

However, it is always necessary to observe the standard hygiene measures which
should be observed in in connection with respiratory diseases that are
transmitted by droplet/aerosols. According to the Robert Koch Institute, the
most effective ways to protect yourself and others against infection with
SARS-CoV-2 include:

  * Wash your hands more frequently: with soap and water (for approx. 20 seconds).
  * Cough and sneeze hygiene: do not cough openly into a room and do not cough into your hand but into the crook of your arm.
  * Keep a distance of ≥1.5 to 2 metres from other people.
  * Avoid direct contact: do not shake hands with or hug other people.
  * Wear a face mask or, in case of scarcity, a textile-based covering to cover the mouth and nose (‘Community Mask’) to catch droplets.
  * Ventilate rooms regularly.
  * Stay informed about the infection and the latest developments.

These measures are also a protection against other respiratory diseases (such
as the flu).

## [ What should I do if I feel ill? ](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-
hygiene-policy.html#)

## What should I do if I feel ill?

[Last updated: 30 October 2020]

If you feel ill yourself and are unsure what is wrong with you, you should
first call your family doctor or the on-call doctor (using the telephone
number: 116117) and discuss how to proceed. The family doctor is the first
point of contact. All general practitioners have been informed by the
“Kassenärztliche Bundesvereinigung” about what to do. It still applies that
people with symptoms that indicate a viral disease should not go to see their
doctor spontaneously, without prior notification by telephone, in order to
avoid the spread of infections.

The state capital of Düsseldorf has set up a ‘corona hotline’ for all
Düsseldorf citizens and for everyone working in the city: 0211-8996090 (fax
number for the hearing impaired: 0211 89-35674). The specially trained corona
hotline team carries out a standardised query developed by the Robert Koch
Institute. If it turns out that a caller needs to be tested for the virus, an
appointment can be made at the central diagnostic facility (Witzelstraße
54-56), the drive-in test centre or the mobile pap test service of the city of
Düsseldorf.

## [ What should I do if I had contact with an infected person or a person who
is suspected to have contracted COVID-19? ](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-
cases-hygiene-policy.html#)

## What should I do if I had contact with an infected person or a person who
is suspected to have contracted COVID-19?

[Last updated: 06 October 2020]

If you had close contact with a person infected with SARS-COVID-19 while
working at HHU or in your personal environment, please observe the information
below:

  * [ Handling (suspected) infections with COVID-19](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Hygienekonzept/Merkblatt_Umgang_mit_Verdachts-_und_Infektionsfaellen_2020-10-06_GB.pdf) (Download)
  * [ Fact sheet Symptomkontrolle](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Kontaktperson_Symptomkontrolle_SARS-CoV-2_2020-03-26.pdf) (Download)
  * [ Form Ermittlung Kontaktpersonen](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Kontaktpersonen_Ermittlung-SARS-CoV-2_2020-03-27.pdf) (Download)

## [ As a supervisor – how do I proceed if one of my employees reports a
(suspected) infection with COVID-19? ](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-
hygiene-policy.html#)

## As a supervisor – how do I proceed if one of my employees reports a
(suspected) infection with COVID-19?

[Last updated: 06 October 2020]

As a supervisor – how do I proceed if one of my employees reports a
(suspected) infection with COVID-19?

  * Information for supervisors ([Download PDF](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Hinweise_fuer_Fachvorgesetzte_Infektions-_und_Kontaktfaelle_2020-10-06_GB.pdf))

## [ Who is most at risk? ](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-
policy.html#)

## Who is most at risk?

The Robert Koch Institute has published a list of people who have a higher
risk of becoming seriously ill from COVID-19 as well as information as to what
these persons can do to avoid contracting the disease.

The group of people with a higher risk includes:

  * Older persons; the risk increases steadily from the age of 50.
  * Smokers
  * Persons with underlying health conditions such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, chronic diseases of the respiratory tract, the kidneys or the liver and cancer patients.
  * Persons with compromised immune systems.

To [RKI’s COVID-19
pages](https://www.rki.de/DE/Content/InfAZ/N/Neuartiges_Coronavirus/Risikogruppen.html)

## [ Important telephone numbers and addresses ](covid-19-suspected-and-
confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy.html#)

## Important telephone numbers and addresses

[Last updated: 30 October 2020]

A new corona hotline of the city of Düsseldorf has been set up - for all
Düsseldorf citizens and for everyone working in the city: 0211-8996090 (fax
number for the hearing impaired: 0211 89-35674). The specially trained corona
hotline team carries out a standardised query developed by the Robert Koch
Institute. If it turns out that a caller needs to be tested for the virus, an
appointment can be made at the central diagnostic facility (Witzelstraße
54-56), the drive-in test centre or the mobile pap test service of the city of
Düsseldorf.

The state government of North Rhine-Westphalia has introduced a new
coronavirus service hotline for its citizens: 0211-91191001.

## [ Hygiene policy/protective measures at HHU ](covid-19-suspected-and-
confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy.html#)

## Hygiene policy

[Updated on: 30 October 2020]

On these pages you can download a briefing describing safety measures to be
taken against the coronavirus as well as several leaflets addressing various
topics. 

To the downloads:

  * Briefing Safety Measures Coronavirus (SARS-CoV 2) [[Download PPTX](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Hygienekonzept/Unterweisung_Schutzmassnahmen_Coronavirus_SAUS_2020-20201030_ENG.pptx)] [[Download PDF](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Hygienekonzept/Unterweisung_Schutzmassnahmen_Coronavirus_SAUS_2020-20201030_ENG.pdf)] [](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Hygienekonzept/Unterweisung_Schutzmassnahmen_Coronavirus_SAUS_2020-05-04__1__ENG.pptx)
  * Hygiene measures for office work [[Download PDF](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Hygienekonzept/Merkblatt_Buerobetrieb_2020-10-23_GB.pdf)]
  * Hygiene measures for exam supervisors [[Download PDF](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Hygienekonzept/Merkblatt_Pruefungen_2020-05-04_GB.pdf)]
  * Briefing Research Work in Laboratories under COVID-19 conditions [[Download PDF](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Hygienekonzept/Merkblatt_Laborbetrieb_2020-08-27_GB.pdf)] – as of 27 August 2020
  * Experimental practical work during COVID-19 [[Download PDF](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Hygienekonzept/Merkblatt_Praktikumsbetrieb_2020-08-27_GB.pdf)] – as of 27 August 2020
  * Interaction with contacts of infected persons [[Download PDF](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Hygienekonzept/Merkblatt_Umgang_mit_Kontaktpersonen_von_Infizierten_2020-05-04_GB.pdf)] 
  * Instructions for making your own face mask [[Download PDF](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Naehanleitung_Behelfs-Mund-Nase-Schutz.pdf)]
  * Info Sheet on Hygiene Measures for Seminar and Conference Rooms  [[Download PDF](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Hygienekonzept/Merkblatt_Seminar-und_Besprechungsraeume_2020-10-20_GB.pdf)]

In case of further questions on hygiene measures, please write to .

## [ Information posters ](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-
policy.html#)

## Posters ‘General hygiene measures’, ‘obligation to wear a face covering’
and ‘airing of rooms’

We’ve prepared a poster with important information on how to avoid infection
with coronavirus. It has been distributed across campus and can be downloaded
as a PDF file [[Download
PDF](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Corona-
Plakat_Allgemeine-Hygienemassnahmen_Okt2020.pdf)]. In addition to that, the
following posters are available as pdf files for download „ A face covering
must be worn inside all buildings“ [[Download
PDF](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Corona-
Plakat_Maskenpflicht-in-Gebaeuden_Okt2020.pdf)] and „Obligation to air rooms“
[[Download
PDF](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Corona-
Plakat_Lueften_Okt2020.pdf)].

If you need a printed copy, please contact the Events and Marketing Service
Unit.  

* * *

## Still have questions?

If you still have questions that haven’t been answered here, please send an
e-mail to the .  




Responsible for the content:

  * [Contact](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/contact-and-services)
  * [Imprint](https://www.hhu.de/en/imprint)
  * [Privacy statement](https://www.hhu.de/datenschutzerklaerung)
  * [Barrierefreiheit](https://www.hhu.de/en/erklaerung-zur-barrierefreiheit)
  * [Emergency](https://www.hhu.de/en/emergency-1)
  * [ Press](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/press-and-marketing/press-contact-persons)

© 2020 Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

© 2020

Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

[](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
[](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/
"LinkedIn") [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw
"YouTube") [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
[](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

Search

