[Jump to content](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#content)[General
guidelines](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#c452967)[Regulations
for employees with a severe pre-existing condition or employees who live in
the same household as a person with a severe pre-existing condition, in effect
from 29 June 2020](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#c452968)[Working
from home and teleworking](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#c452969)[Business
trips](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#c452970)[Central
University Administration Information](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#c452971)[Support
for scientists against the background of the coronavirus pandemic](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#c452972)["Employees"
topic group](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#c438661)[Main
points for employees in brief](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#c438664)[Employees](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#c452977)[Still
have questions?](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#c439184)[Main
points for employees in brief](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#c438663)

  * [DE](../fuer-beschaeftigte.html)
  * EN
  * |[Intranet](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/ "Intranet")
  * |[Portals](https://portale.hhu.de "Portals")
  * |[ULB-Katalog](https://katalog.ulb.hhu.de "ULB-Katalog")

  * [](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
  * [](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/ "LinkedIn")
  * [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw "YouTube")
  * [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
  * [](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

[![Logo Heinrich-Heine-Universität
Düsseldorf](https://www.corona.hhu.de/typo3conf/ext/wiminno/Resources/Public/img/hhu_logo.png)](https://www.hhu.de/en/)

[![Logo Heinrich-Heine-Universität
Düsseldorf](https://www.corona.hhu.de/typo3conf/ext/wiminno/Resources/Public/img/hhu_logo_mobil.png)](https://www.hhu.de)

Willkommen!

  * [HHU information on coronavirus](index.html)
    * [Information ...](index.html)
    * [for students](for-students.html)
    * [for lecturers](for-lecturers.html)
    * [on research](research.html)
    * [for employees](for-employees.html)
    * [on university operations](university-operations.html)
    * [on COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy)

[](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
[](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/
"LinkedIn") [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw
"YouTube") [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
[](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

  * [DE](../fuer-beschaeftigte.html)
  * EN
  * |[Intranet](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/ "Intranet")
  * |[Portals](https://portale.hhu.de "Portals")
  * |[ULB-Katalog](https://katalog.ulb.hhu.de "ULB-Katalog")

  * [Contact](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/contact-and-services)
  * [Imprint](https://www.hhu.de/en/imprint)
  * [Privacy statement](https://www.hhu.de/datenschutzerklaerung)
  * [Barrierefreiheit](https://www.hhu.de/en/erklaerung-zur-barrierefreiheit)
  * [Emergency](https://www.hhu.de/en/emergency-1)
  * [ Press](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/press-and-marketing/press-contact-persons)

© 2021 Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

  * HHU information on coronavirus

[To homepage: HHU information on coronavirus](index.html)

    * [Information ...](index.html)
    * [for students](for-students.html)
    * [for lecturers](for-lecturers.html)
    * [on research](research.html)
    * [for employees](for-employees.html)
    * [on university operations](university-operations.html)
    * [on COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy)

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACwAAAAAAQABAAA=)

[HHU](https://www.hhu.de/en/)[HHU information on coronavirus](index.html)
**for employees**

# Employees

## "Employees" topic group

## Main points for employees in brief

  * On the basis of the [SARS-CoV-2-Occupational Health and Safety Ordinance guidelines](https://www.bmas.de/DE/Service/Gesetze/sars-cov-2-arbeitsschutzverordnung.html) passed by the German Ministry of Labour on 21 January 2021, which will be in force until 14 March for the time being, simple face coverings are not sufficient in case of the exceptions specified there (requirements regarding room occupation cannot be maintained; minimum distance of 1.5m cannot be maintained; jobs with health hazards caused by increased exchange of aerosols). Instead, it is mandatory to wear medical face masks or FFP2 masks in these cases. These masks can be obtained quickly and unbureaucratically via HHU’s Lyreco web shop and can be paid out of the institutes’ and institutions’ budget without any prior review. However, employees are, of course, at liberty to wear medical or FFP2 masks paid out of the University’s budget even when where there are no compelling reasons as the ones stated in the relevant occupational health and safety ordinance. Owing to the specific requirements of their work in connection with patient care, UKD and Faculty of Medicine regulations apply for Faculty of Medicine and UKD employees.   
  * A simple face covering must be worn everywhere on HHU campus as well as all inside all buildings used by HHU. The only exceptions are for lecturers during their lectures, provided that the minimum distance of 1.5m to other persons can be maintained, and for employees in their own workspace, provided that the required hygiene measures (e.g. a minimum distance of 1.5m to other persons or separated by (acrylic) glass) can be maintained there.
  * The regulations concerning work from home/telework as stipulated in the relevant service agreement have been suspended until 19 February 2021 in the light of the relevant rulings by the Federal Government. Persons whose physical presence on campus is essential to maintain operations continue to be obliged to come to campus to the extent that is necessary. For all other persons it is possible to fully or in parts work from home/perform telework or mobile work. In light of the latest rates of new infections, all employees should make use of the option to work from homes as much as possible and reduce their presence on campus to the extent that is really necessary. The responsible supervisors are tasked to organise operations in their respective area of responsibility under these conditions and at the same time reduce presence on campus of their team to the required amount. 
  * For employees with a severe pre-existing condition as well as for employees who live in the same household as a person with a severe pre-existing condition it is under certain conditions which will be explained below, possible to work from home/perform telework irrespective of the relevant service agreement.
  * Employees who have been diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2 must not enter the premises of Heinrich Heine University (buildings or grounds) until they can prove that are no longer infected and/or infectious.  
  * Employees who have entered Germany from one of the high-risk areas as specified by the German Government and employees who were or still are in close contact with a person who is infected with COVID-19 must not enter HHU’s campus if they have to undergo a period of self-isolation mandated by either the appropriate health authorities or stipulated by NRW state legislation.  
  * Check the following link on the corona website for [ information about what to do in case of suspected infections and personal contact with infected persons](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy).
  * Business travel is possible to those countries for which the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not issued a travel warning.  At this time, business travel to high-risk areas is banned. This business travel ban also extends to districts (‚Kreis‘) and towns independent of a ‚Kreis‘ within Germany with an incidence value  ≥ 50.

Last updated: 20 January 2021: Main points for employees in brief; general
guidelines;  
  
Preliminary comment:  
**For employees who work in the Faculty of Medicine or at UKD, the regulations
of Düsseldorf University Hospital apply for all topics addressed here.**

## Employees

## [ General guidelines ](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#)

## General guidelines

[Updated on: 27 January 2021]

To protect your own health and to avoid further infections, Heinrich Heine
University is taking the following preventive measures. These measures apply
regardless of whether first symptoms of the disease have already appeared.

The regulations concerning work from home/telework as stipulated in the
relevant service agreement have been suspended until 15 January 2021 in the
light of the relevant rulings by the Federal Government. Persons whose
physical presence is required on campus as well as persons who can perform
their duties only on campus continue to be obliged to come to campus for work.
For all other persons it is possible to fully or in parts work from
home/perform telework or mobile work. The responsible supervisors are tasked
to organise and guarantee operational functions under these conditions. 

A simple face covering must be worn everywhere on HHU campus as well as all
inside all buildings used by HHU. The only exceptions are for lecturers during
their lectures, provided that the minimum distance of 1.5m to other persons
can be maintained, and for employees in their own workspace, provided that the
required hygiene measures (e.g. a minimum distance of 1.5m to other persons or
separated by (acrylic) glass) can be maintained there. Further specifications,
e.g. in areas at UKD where patients are treated must be observed.

Persons who cannot wear a face covering for medical reasons are exempt from
this obligation if they are in possession of an appropriate medical
certificate which they must carry with them at all times. 

On the basis of the [SARS-CoV-2-Occupational Health and Safety Ordinance
guidelines](http://http://) passed by the German Ministry of Labour on 21
January 2021, which will be in force until 14 March for the time being, simple
face coverings are not sufficient in case of the exceptions specified there
(requirements regarding room occupation cannot be maintained; minimum distance
of 1.5m cannot be maintained; jobs with health hazards caused by increased
exchange of aerosols). Instead, it is mandatory to wear medical face masks or
FFP2 masks in these cases. These masks can be obtained quickly and
unbureaucratically via HHU’s Lyreco web shop and can be paid out of the
institutes’ and institutions’ budget without any prior review. However,
employees are, of course, at liberty to wear medical or FFP2 masks paid out of
the University’s budget even when where there are no compelling reasons as the
ones stated in the relevant occupational health and safety ordinance. Owing to
the specific requirements of their work in connection with patient care, UKD
and Faculty of Medicine regulations apply for Faculty of Medicine and UKD
employees.

  1. Employees with an active SARS-CoV-2 infection must not enter Heinrich Heine University (buildings or grounds) until they can prove that they are no longer infected and/or no longer infectious.
  2. Check the following link on the corona website for information about what to do in case of suspected infections and personal contact with infected persons: [www.corona.hhu.de/zu-covid-19-verdachts-und-kontaktfaellen](https://www.corona.hhu.de/zu-covid-19-verdachts-und-kontaktfaellen).
  3. 4Employees who have entered Germany from an international ‚high-risk area‘ as specified by the German Federal Government and employees who were or are still in close contact with a person who is infected with COVID-19 e.g. because they live in the same household or because they are their carers, must not enter HHU campus for as long as the health authorities or the appropriate [NRW regulations](https://www.mags.nrw./coronavirus) stipulate a period of self-isolation.  
  4. 5Continued remuneration for the time of self-isolation by order of the appropriate authorities and the resulting ban from entering HHU campus will be in accordance with the appropriate legislation and the German Infection Protection Act. Normally, HHU will continue to pay your wages for six weeks to then claim a refund for this sum from the appropriate authorities. Should the legal provisions change, e.g. if in certain cases people returning from high-risk areas are no longer entitled to receive any payments, HHU will, of course, implement these new regulations. Employees who have been mandated to self-isolate or who self-isolate in accordance with state legislations are obliged to contact Division 3 (Personnel Management Division) immediately .

## [ Regulations for employees with a severe pre-existing condition or
employees who live in the same household as a person with a severe pre-
existing condition, in effect from 29 June 2020 ](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#)

## Regulations for employees with a severe pre-existing condition or employees
who live in the same household as a person with a severe pre-existing
condition, in effect from 29 June 2020

Employees with a severe pre-existing condition who have a much greater risk
for infection with Covid-19 at their place of work, in comparison to everyday
life, even when taking advantage of all organisational provisions available
can, under certain conditions, still work from home after 26 June 2020, even
though HHU returns to the usual work from home/telework regulations as
stipulated in the relevant service agreement after that. The same is the case
for employees who live in the same household as a person with a severe pre-
existing condition who would, compared to everyday life, have an increased
risk of infection and therefore an increased risk of suffering a particularly
severe course of the infection even if the employee exercises extreme caution.

For these employees it is, if certain conditions are met, possible to work
from home/perform telework, irrespective of the general regulations. In order
to obtain such a special permission to work from home, the employee must
describe his or her personal situation, supported by a medical certificate
confirming that working on campus would be too high a risk for the employee or
a person in the same household. This will have to be approved by at least the
employee’s supervisor in ULB, ZIM or ZUV and must also be approved by the
respective management. Organisational units other than the three service units
mentioned are authorised to define additional requirements in addition to the
approval of the supervisor. From 29 June on, there will be a new item in the
FLAZ system „Besonderer Arbeitsort (BAO)“ to reflect this. 

## [ Working from home and teleworking ](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#)

## Working from home and teleworking

[Last updated: 29 October 2020]

  * In those areas in which employees work flexible hours with work time recording, the work from home/teleworking days must be recorded via the WebService of the ZEUS time management software. To do this, choose the item “Fehlzeitantrag” in the drop-down menu and enter “Corona FZ” as the reason for absence on those days that you worked from home/performed telework.
  * The request via WebService can be submitted in advance or after you have returned to the office. After approval of the workflow request, you will be credited with the regular daily target working hours for each day that you worked from home/performed telework (cf. § 9 Para. 3 of the service agreement on alternating/mobile work from home/telework). This means that a fixed working time applies on the days that you work from home / perform telework and the time sovereignty which usually applies in the FLAZ system is suspended, i.e. you cannot independently reduce or extend your working hours.
  * An extension of the regular daily working hours, which may be necessary in individual cases due to special tasks or work that cannot be delayed, can only be considered, if overtime has been mandated in advance. The Human Resources Department is the authority responsible in this case; only in very urgent cases is the immediate supervisor responsible point of contact. Only in these cases will the actual working hours get recorded via clock-in/clock-out bookings, which must be indicated separately in the comments field.
  * When you combine work from home/telework and physical presence at HHU at one and the same day, you do not have to clock in with the help of the time recording device.
  * Employees who do not participate in flextime must coordinate their presence at work/absence from work with their supervisor on the basis of the current coronavirus regulations. The Human Resources Department need not be notified.  
  * For employees with a severe pre-existing condition as well as for employees who live in the same household as a person with a severe pre-existing condition it is under certain conditions possible to work from home/perform telework, as explained above. To register this in the flextime system, choose the item ‘Besonderer Arbeitsort (BOA)’.

### Working from home/teleworking

The Centre for Information and Media Technology (ZIM) has set up a Wiki with
information on how to get access to HHU systems (VPN, WebDAV) so you can work
from home and how to set up video conferences: [ZIM
Wiki.](https://wiki.hhu.de/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=155157366)

## [ Business trips ](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#)

## Business trips

[Last updated: 27 October 2020]

Business travel (and the processing of respective applications) is possible to
countries for which the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not issued a
travel warning. You can find a list of these travel warnings
[here](https://www.auswaertiges-amt.de/de/ReiseUndSicherheit/reise-
gesundheit/gesundheit-fachinformationen/reisemedizinische-
hinweise/Coronavirus).  In light of the infection’s dynamic nature, business
trips to high-risk areas are currently banned. This business travel ban also
extends to districts (‚Kreis‘) and towns independent of a ‚Kreis‘ within
Germany with an incidence value  ≥ 50. This also means that any approvals of
business trips can be revoked in cases where after the time of approval but
before the beginning of the trip a travel warning is issued for that
destination. 

In this context, the following must be observed: 

  1. Business travel is still to be limited to those trips that are absolutely necessary.
  2. We would like to explicitly point out the decision of the German Federal Government that it will not undertake another mission to bring back stranded German nationals in case of a new coronavirus wave. We would also like to point out that it is in each applicant’s responsibility to comply with the entry regulations of their respective travel destination.
  3. Business travel to countries for which the German Federal Government has issued a COVID-19 travel warning will not be approved  as a rule until 31 August 2020.    
  4. Business travel to countries where a period of quarantine after entering or returning from that country is required is not permitted.
  5. Business travel regulations of Düsseldorf University Hospital apply to Faculty of Medicine staff due to the (potential) impact on health care.  

Please check the Personnel Department’s website for [further information on
business trips (Intranet)](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/zuv-zentrale-
universitaetsverwaltung/dezernat-3-personal-d3/serviceseiten-d3-mit-
downloads/formulare-und-informationen-d3/dienstreisen-dienstgaenge-und-
fortbildungsreisen/aktuelle-informationen-zu-reiseeinschraenkungen-wegen-der-
coronavirus-epidemie.html).

## [ Central University Administration Information ](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#)

## Central University Administration Information

This is where you can find further information concerning the Central
University Administration.

### Key Distribution Office

As of now, HHU’s Key Distribution Office is closed. Only in very urgent cases,
and only with an appointment, can keys/transponders be collected or returned.

Please send your requests by e-mail to the Key Distribution Office’s shared
mailbox: 

[You can find the respective application forms
here](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/en/zentrale-
universitaetsverwaltung/dezernat-6-gebaeudemanagement/serviceseiten-d6-mit-
downloads) (Intranet)

If you do not have access the University’s intranet, please send an e-mail to
the Key Distribution Office / Schlüsselverwaltung, which will then provide you
with all necessary documents.

Please e-mail the fully completed and signed forms to the Key Distribution
Office’s shared mailbox (see e-mail address above). The staff will get back to
you as soon as possible and let you know how to proceed.

### Billposting policy

HHU’s billposting policy has been suspended until further notice by the
Department for Facility Management (D6). During normal operations, the
facility manager makes sure that only registered and approved
announcements/notices get posted on campus. By suspending this policy, we make
sure that recipients of post and packages can pass on their contact details
(e.g. mobile phone numbers) to the postal services to allow for a quick
delivery of these items while the building doors remain locked. These notices
may only be attached to the windows and glass doors in the foyers of the
buildings. For all other announcements/bills, HHU’s billposting policy still
applies.

## [ Support for scientists against the background of the coronavirus pandemic
](for-
employees%3FC=M%25253BO%25253DA&cHash=2d1c6c64777124b35b503c04a16e680a.html#)

## Support for scientists against the background of the coronavirus pandemic

[Last updated: 29 September 2020]

Preliminary remark: in the current situation, the University’s management
tries to alleviate the worries, needs and encountered challenges caused by the
coronavirus crisis as much as possible for all HHU’s employees. To consolidate
the most essential, but not always easy to find, information on regulations
and support available to the central, large but also heterogenic group of
scientists, we have compiled it here in the following guidelines: 

  * Even though the childcare facilities in NRW will return to normal operations in a reduced form on 08 June 2020, all institutes are called upon to remain particularly considerate of scientists with young children. It is to be expected that in individual cases problems with childcare may arise because the childcare facilities will operate on reduced schedules that replace the previously available emergency childcare. Schools will probably not return to their normal schedules before the summer holidays, either.   
  * Together with the University’s management, the central equal opportunities commissioner is organising several facilitation measures such as financial aid for childcare during the completion period of final theses/dissertations, financial support for the implementation of digital lectures or payment of childcare expenses for committee members. For more details regarding the help available, please [see the web pages of the Central Equal Opportunities Commissioner](https://www.uni-duesseldorf.de/home/universitaet/strukturen/beauftragte-und-koordinierungsstellen/gleichstellungsbeauftragte.html).
  * The possibility to renew the fixed-term contracts of those scientists who were particularly affected by the coronavirus crisis as stipulated in the amended (May 2020) Act on Fixed-term Contracts for Scientists (WissZeitVG) can be implemented fully at HHU (for now, the maximum duration of fixed-term employments can be extended by up to six months). On the basis of a BMBF ordinance valid from 01 October 2020, which the BMBF was authorised to issue by the amended WissZeitVG, relevant employment relationships can now be extended by a further 6 months. Applications for corresponding contract extensions can be submitted to the Human Resources Department in the usual way.   
  * With the “Act to Amend the Act to Establish a ‘Foundation for University Admissions’ (Stiftung für Hochschulzulassungen) and to amend other Acts in the Higher Education Sector” of 22 September 2020, the State of North Rhine-Westphalia has created a possibility for extending the temporary civil service contracts for employees holding the positions of “Juniorprofessor/in”, “Akademische/r Rat/Rätin” and “Oberrätin/Oberrat”, similar to the WissZeitVG. In the case of this regulation for academic civil servants, it is imperative that the extension take place within the tenure of office or on the day after tenure of office has ended at the latest. Otherwise it would equal a new appointment under civil service legislation, which is not covered by the legislation and is therefore not permissible.
  * For employees whose positions or projects are financed by third-party funds, the regulations of the third-party fund providers, which for the most part reflect current situation, apply. In particular with regard to the extension of the life span of grants and/or the authorisation of additional financial resources. For more information [see the website of the Department for Research and Transfer](https://www.forschung.uni-duesseldorf.de/en/funding-organizations-and-corona.html). The Department for Research and Transfer is happy to review and forward appropriate applications.
  * HHU management will of course take into account the restrictions imposed by the coronavirus pandemic when it comes to evaluations, the review of target and performance agreements and other such procedures e.g. in the case of assistant professorships, offers of appointment etc. From today’s perspective, this only makes sense once the coronavirus pandemic has more or less abated because only then can we assess the consequences of the pandemic and come up with adequate solutions.  
  * Research semesters that have already been approved and which cannot reasonably be commenced due to necessities in teaching, international travel restrictions or similar reasons can be postponed if the deans agree.   
  * HHU explicitly offers the possibility to make use of the regulations of section 4 (6) in the academic workload guidelines to count the compilation and maintenance of multimedia and virtual lectures with up to 25 per cent towards the academic workload requirements, provided it can be guaranteed that all courses can be offered in their entirety in the individual subjects. It is the dean’s responsibility to ascertain that these criteria are met. 

[ Download as info
sheet](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Merkblatt_Erleichterungen_Wissenschaft_2020-09-28_GB.pdf).

* * *

## Still have questions?

If you still have questions that haven’t been answered here, please send an
e-mail to the .  




Responsible for the content:

  * [Contact](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/contact-and-services)
  * [Imprint](https://www.hhu.de/en/imprint)
  * [Privacy statement](https://www.hhu.de/datenschutzerklaerung)
  * [Barrierefreiheit](https://www.hhu.de/en/erklaerung-zur-barrierefreiheit)
  * [Emergency](https://www.hhu.de/en/emergency-1)
  * [ Press](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/press-and-marketing/press-contact-persons)

© 2021 Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

© 2021

Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

[](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
[](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/
"LinkedIn") [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw
"YouTube") [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
[](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

Search

