[Jump to content](for-students.html#content)[Jump to search](for-
students.html#searchanchor)

  * [DE](../fuer-studierende.html)
/

  * EN
  * |[Intranet](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/ "Intranet")
  * |[Portals](https://portale.hhu.de "Portals")
  * |[ULB Catalogue](https://katalog.ulb.hhu.de "ULB Catalogue")

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/ "LinkedIn")
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw "YouTube")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

[![Logo Heinrich-Heine-Universität
Düsseldorf](https://www.corona.hhu.de/typo3conf/ext/wiminno/Resources/Public/img/hhu_logo.png)](https://www.hhu.de/en/)

[![Logo Heinrich-Heine-Universität
Düsseldorf](https://www.corona.hhu.de/typo3conf/ext/wiminno/Resources/Public/img/hhu_logo_mobil.png)](https://www.hhu.de/en/)

Open menu

Close menu

Willkommen!

  * [HHU information on coronavirus](index.html) Open next level
    * [Information ...](index.html)
    * [for students](for-students.html)
    * [for lecturers](for-lecturers.html)
    * [for employees](for-employees.html)
    * [on research](research.html)
    * [on university operations](university-operations.html)
    * [on COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy)

[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-
dusseldorf/ "LinkedIn")
[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw "YouTube")
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
[Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

  * [DE](../fuer-studierende.html)
/

  * EN
  * |[Intranet](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/ "Intranet")
  * |[Portals](https://portale.hhu.de "Portals")
  * |[ULB Catalogue](https://katalog.ulb.hhu.de "ULB Catalogue")

  * [Contact](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/contact-and-services)
  * [Imprint](https://www.hhu.de/en/imprint)
  * [Privacy statement](https://www.hhu.de/datenschutzerklaerung)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.hhu.de/erklaerung-zur-barrierefreiheit)
  * [Emergency](https://www.hhu.de/en/emergency-1)
  * [ Press](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/press-and-marketing/press-contact-persons)

© 2021 Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

  * HHU information on coronavirus

Close menu [To homepage: HHU information on coronavirus](index.html)

    * [Information ...](index.html)
    * [for students](for-students.html)
    * [for lecturers](for-lecturers.html)
    * [for employees](for-employees.html)
    * [on research](research.html)
    * [on university operations](university-operations.html)
    * [on COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy)

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACwAAAAAAQABAAA=)

[Home](https://www.hhu.de/en/)[HHU information on coronavirus](index.html)
**for students**

# Students

## Main points for students in brief

  * Provided that strict hygiene and social distancing measures are observed, written examinations may take place in person. A medical face mask must be worn throughout the whole in-person written exam. Final theses and projects may continue and be registered, provided they do not require on-campus presence or that the laboratory work, which must be in preparation of or part of an examination, has already begun und the responsible supervisor has agreed to its being continued.  

  * As a reaction to the NRW state government’s rulings, HHU has adapted its regulations regarding teaching and examinations. For more information, please check the sections „teaching and studying“ and „examinations“.  
  * As a rule, in-person lectures are not allowed. Wherever possible, classes will take place online until the end of the lecture period. Laboratory placements and practical courses can only take place on-campus in exceptional cases and after authorisation by the responsible dean of studies.   
  * Oral exams must take place online.
  * Final theses/projects may continue and can continue to be registered, provided that they either do not require on-campus presence, or that the laboratory work is in preparation of or an integral part of an examination and that it was approved by the responsible supervisor. Final theses/projects that require laboratory work but where exam-related preparation have not begun yet, cannot take place and cannot be registered at the time being.
  * The study rooms on campus which had been set up to enable participation in online classes will remain closed for the time being. Students are advised to only come to campus for exams or to attend the few in-person lectures that are currently taking place.
  * For details regarding opening hours, access and services offerd by the University and State library please check their website: [www.ulb.hhu.de](http://www.ulb.hhu.de).
  * A simple face covering must be worn everywhere on HHU campus as well as all inside all buildings used by HHU. The only exceptions are for employees in their own workspace, provided that the required hygiene measures (e.g. a minimum distance of 1.5m to other persons or separation by (acrylic) glass) can be maintained there.
  * The rectorate has passed [ new regulations to specify the Corona Pandemic Ordinance](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/ZUV/Justitiariat/Amtliche_Bekanntmachungen/2020/2020_12_10_AB_66.pdf). These regulations provide almost university-wide specifications regarding flexible teaching and examination formats, withdrawals from exams and additional attempts at passing examinations during the covid-19 pandemic.

Last updated: 03 February 2021: main points in brief; examinations;   01
February 2021: dates and deadlines; teaching and studying;

## Students

General information

## General information

[Last updated: 02 December 2020]

To protect individual health and prevent further infections, Heinrich Heine
University is taking the following preventive measures. These measures apply
irrespective of whether initial symptoms of the disease have already been
detected.

  1. A simple face covering must be worn everywhere on HHU campus as well as all inside all buildings used by HHU. The only exceptions are for lecturers during their lectures, provided that the minimum distance of 1.5m to other persons can be maintained, and for employees in their own workspace, provided that the required hygiene measures (e.g. a minimum distance of 1.5m to other persons or separation by (acrylic) glass) can be maintained there. Further specifications for the health care sector must be observed. Persons who cannot wear a face covering for medical reasons are exempt from the obligation to wear one. To prove this, they need a medical certificate which they must carry on their person at all times. 
  2. Students who are infected with SARS-Co-V-2 are not allowed to enter HHU (premises and buildings) until it has been proven that the disease has been cured or is no longer contagious.
  3. Provided that a stay-at-home order is mandatorily required by the public health office or the general regulations of the state of NRW, a ban from entering the campus is in place for students who have entered from an international high-risk area that has been designated as such by the Federal Government as well as for students who were or still are in close contact with persons infected with the coronavirus because they, e.g., are taking care of them or live with them in a common household. Compliance with further specifications, for example, in UKD in the health care sector, must be ensured.
  4. Persons from areas within Germany that experience an increased number of coronavirus infections, and which sometimes are misleadingly called ‚risk areas‘, may still come to HHU. Only when an area has been put under quarantine by the authorities, persons from this area may no longer enter HHU campus.  

[Click here for more information about the latest hygiene and safety
regulations on the ‘corona website’](covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-
hygiene-policy.html).

To be able to quickly identify and contact any contact persons in case of a
COVID-19 infection, traceability must be ensured in all in-person events
(lectures, examinations, exam reviews, office hours etc.). This is why you
will be asked to leave your name, your student registration number and your
telephone number in all of the events. The data will be stored securely for
four weeks to prevent unauthorised access and either be passed on to the
appropriate authorities should this become necessary or destroyed after four
weeks. 

Dates & Deadlines

## Dates & Deadlines

[Last updated: 01 February 2021]

You can find all dates and potential changes under [dates and
deadlines](https://www.hhu.de/en/studies/organising-your-studies/translate-to-
english-vorlesungszeiten).

The phase of written examinations following the winter semester 2020/2021 is
four weeks long and from 15 February to 12 March 2021. The phase of written
examinations before summer semester 2021 is planned to take place from 22
March to 09 April 2021 (and includes the Easter holidays 2021: from 02 to 05
April 2021). 

Teaching and studying

## Teaching and studying

[Last updated: 01 February 2021]

The following framework conditions regarding teaching and studying at HHU will
be in effect until the end of the lecture period on 12 February 2021.The next
NRW government decision round regarding coronavirus restrictions for higher
education institutions is scheduled to take place in February. As before, the
Taskforce Lehre will then immediately discuss the decisions‘ implementation
and inform you about possible changes as soon as possible. Please note that
these ordinances and decrees concerning university operations are not always
available immediately and that therefore their implementation at HHU can only
take place time-delayed. 

#### Lectures (01 February 2021)

As a rule, in-person lectures are not allowed. Wherever possible, classes will
continue to be taught online until the end of the lecture period.

Internships/laboratory placements and other practical activities may only then
take place on campus if alternatives, such as online teaching, re-scheduling
exams or a different type of stubstitute are not an option. What is more, the
lab placement/internship must be a mandatory component of a bachelor’s or
master’s degree or a mandatory requirement to register for the examination to
obtain a state examination degree. As a general rule, the minimum distance of
1.5m between all persons present must be maintained in the case of on-campus
laboratory placements at all times and a medical face mask must be worn.
Please contact your lecturers for more information. 

Persons from areas which have adopted restrictions to the freedom of movement
may travel to HHU to attend in-person classes, internships/lab placements or
examinations. If this applies to you, please contact the registrar’s office
(Studierenden- und Prüfungsverwaltung) in case of questions.

#### Examinations (01 February 2021)

Please see item ‚examinations‘ to find out more about the regulations in place
regarding written and oral examinations and final theses/papers. 

#### Central institutions (01 February 2021)

ULB’s service will also be reduced. Please use ULB’s extensive digital
services. You can only access ULB to pick up pre-requested media or to return
media. At present, the non-lending section cannot be accessed. However, ULB
has set up various services to request circulating media from the reading room
collection. More detailed information will be made available successively on
ULB’s website ([www.ulb.hhu.de](http://www.ulb.hhu.de)).

Study rooms on campus

[Last updated: 15 January 2021]

The small study rooms and the lecture theatres on HHU campus that have been
set up to enable participation in online courses and also the study rooms at
the University and State Library are closed until further notice. If possible,
please only come to campus for exams or to attend one of the few in-person
lectures.  We will inform you here when the study rooms become available
again.

Exams

## Exams

[Last updated: 03 February 2021]                                 

#### HHU regulations to specify the Coronavirus Epidemic Higher Education
Ordinance

The rectorate has passed university-wide regulations regarding flexible
teaching and examination formats, withdrawal regulations and additional exam
attempts for winter semester 2020/21. They are based on NRW statutory
ordinance (coronavirus epidemic higher education ordinance). You can [
download the most recent regulations
here](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/ZUV/Justitiariat/Amtliche_Bekanntmachungen/2020/2020_12_10_AB_66.pdf).

In addition to this, the individual prescribed period of study for students
who have been enrolled in winter semester 2020/2021 will be extended by one
semester, a continuation of the summer semester 2020 regulations. 

#### Written exams (03 February 2021)

At HHU, in-person teaching or oral exams are not permitted; in accordance with
the NRW general decree, dated 22 January 2021, written exams may only then
take place in person if there are no alternatives available, or if the exam
cannot be postponed or if postponing it would mean too much of an
inconvenience for the students. In addition to that, the in-person examination
must be a component of a bachelor’s or master’s degree or a requirement to
register for a state examination degree. 

The necessity to have a limited number of in-person written exams despite the
ongoing pandemic, under strict observance of the hygiene and social distancing
rules,  is based exclusively on our  aim to make it possible for HHU students
to obtain a regular and recognised degree. All HHU lecturers have been asked
to check if an exam that had been planned to take place in-person can be
preplaced by a digital format that does not require on-campus presence.
However, in many cases this is not possible because the competences that are
getting tested cannot be transferred into an online format that offers equal
and fair chances to all students. 

In compliance with strict safety measures, HHU wants to offer students the
possibility to sit the written exams necessary to obtain their degree, but at
the same time does not want to put pressure on anyone to actually hold or sit
them.  For the rectorate this means finding the balance between the necessity
of enabling the students to obtain a degree, and at the same time not exert
pressure on the students to come to campus and sit these exams in person. To
do justice to both aims, the following special regulations have been adopted
for the current winter semester 2020/2021: 

  * Written in-person examinations are possible in principle in those cases where an exam result cannot be obtained via digital means, provided strict hygiene and social distancing rules are being followed.
  * Not showing up for an examination is treated like a regular withdrawal from the exam in all faculties.
  * Students who fail their module exam under the current difficult conditions in the pandemic, will be granted an additional attempt to re-sit this module exam once in a semester.  

In-person written exams will take place exclusively in lecture theatres or
other well-ventilated rooms. All hygiene and social distancing rules must be
observed during in-person exams. This includes the mandatory wearing of a
medical face mask throughout the duration of the exam. Please bring your own
medical face mask and wear it from the time you enter the building until the
time you leave it, this includes the time you are writing the exam. 

Students from areas which have adopted restrictions to the freedom of movement
may travel to HHU to attend in-person classes, internships/lab placements or
examinations. If this applies to you, please contact the registrar’s office
(Studierenden- und Prüfungsverwaltung) in case of questions. Dates for written
examinations set to take place in from February 2021 will remain as they are
for the time being. In individual cases, there may occur exam date changes
during the semester break, before the beginning of summer semester 2021 to
untangle the exam phase. We will pass on any new regulations for NRW as soon
as they are available to anyone concerned as soon as possible. If you have any
questions, please e-mail your lecturer or the responsible dean of studies
office. 

In principle, online exams are permissible in all study programmes at present.
For this purpose, HHU has passed university-wide guidelines which are
currently being specified in the respective faculties.

#### Exam viewings (01 February 2021)

Exam viewings should take place online, if possible. As a rule, in-person exam
viewings are only possible for students who failed their examinations. 

#### Oral exams

Individual oral exams can currently only take place online. Details will be
managed by the faculties. Please contact your examiner and/or your dean of
studies in case of questions. 

Students may withdraw from an oral examination until noon of the day before
the examination. To withdraw from an exam, students can contact the examiner
directly. In case of an acute illness, students may withdraw from the exam
until the beginning of the exam if they can provide a doctor’s certificate.

#### Final theses and projects (03 February 2021)

Final theses or projects may continue and can continue to be registered,
provided that they either do not require on-campus presence or that the
laboratory work is in preparation of or an integral part of an examination and
provided that the lab practice has already begun and that its continuation has
been approved by the respective supervisor. This also applies to Faculty of
Medicine doctoral theses. Final theses/projects that require laboratory
practice but where the lab practice has not started yet, cannot take place and
cannot be registered at the time being.  

Course organisation

## Course organisation

[Last updated 02 November 2020]

### Enrolment and re-registration

In order to enrol for a course you must have enrolled or re-registered as a
full-time student.

Students can enrol, re-register or change subjects by sending the documents by
post. It is not necessary for students to enrol or re-register in person. It
is currently also possible to determine suitability for switching subjects on
a master’s programme by e-mail. Please [click on this link for information on
applications](https://www.uni-duesseldorf.de/home/en/studying-and-teaching-at-
hhu/studying/erste-schritte-nuetzliches-bewerbung-und-
einschreibung/information-for-foreign-applicants/application-as-a-foreign-
student.html).

If you have any questions, please contact the Student Services hotline at
0211-8112345 or send an . You can find out more about responsibilities in the
[OnSSC](https://www.uni-duesseldorf.de/home/studium-und-lehre-an-der-
hhu/studium/studienberatung2/onssc.html).

### Periods of study abroad

Erasmus stays abroad can go ahead as planned provided that the host university
remains open to exchange students. A mix of digital and in-person lectures is
possible here. At this point in time, it is not fully clear yet if fully
digital semesters can be sponsored. You will only receive financial support
for periods where you stayed abroad, no matter whether you use only digital or
in-person teaching offers. As long as you are taking courses digitally from
Germany, the International Office is not allowed to support this financially.

A stay abroad is possible and eligible for financial support even if the
German Federal Foreign Office has issued a travel warning. However, the
International Office expressly points out that health and safety are naturally
top priorities in the Erasmus+ programme, too. The German Academic Exchange
Service (DAAD) therefore advises against staying in a high-risk area. Please
refer to the travel warnings for tourist travel that the [German Federal
Foreign Office](https://www.auswaertiges-
amt.de/de/ReiseUndSicherheit/covid-19/2296762) updates on a regular basis.
When returning from a high-risk area, please observe the [RKI’s applicable
regulations](https://www.rki.de/DE/Content/InfAZ/N/Neuartiges_Coronavirus/nCoV.html)
regarding quarantine and/or testing.

If they wish, students may postpone their semester abroad intended to take
place during winter semester 2020/21 and do it in summer semester 2021.
However, they have to get permission from the Erasmus officer in their
respective subject and the host university. They also have to notify HHU’s
International Office. They should also bear in mind that summer semesters in
other countries often begin as early as January or February (and can therefore
collide with the end of HHU’s winter semester). 

In the light of the current situation, the International Office recommends
that you do not pay any travel expenses or transfer rent/rental deposits too
far in advance.  If you cannot start your stay abroad at short notice due to
measures against the spread of the coronavirus and you have already incurred
costs, the International Office may be able to take over some of the costs.

Please contact  if you have any questions.

The same basically applies to students who receive an HHU Mobility Grant /
PROMOS. However, students who want to postphone their stay abroad until the
summer semester must re-apply for a scholarship by 01 November 2020 because
the scholarships are granted by calendar year only. Please contact  in case of
any questions.

Information for international students

## Information for international students

[Last updated: 18 September 2020]

In principle, international students (degree-seeking and incomings) are
subject to the same framework conditions and HHU recommendations as all other
HHU students. Therefore, please note the further information on this website.

Please inform yourself about the current entry requirements before you enter
the country. You can get information on the [Federal Ministry of Health’s
website](https://www.mags.nrw/sites/default/files/asset/document/200831_coronaeinrvo_ab_01.09.2020.pdf).

After your arrival, you can get tested for the coronavirus at airports, in
doctors’ offices and in corona walk-in test centres. You’ll find information
on the city of [Düsseldorf’s corona website](https://corona.duesseldorf.de/).
The result of your corona test is positive? Then send your corona test result
to the . The public health office will order a quarantine. [Click here for
information about the
quarantine](https://corona.duesseldorf.de/zielgruppen/infizierte/testung).

If you are entering the country from a high-risk area and are moving into a
dormitory in Düsseldorf, you must present a corona test. You can get more
information on the [Düsseldorf Student Services Center’s
website](https://www.stw-d.de/studentisches-wohnen/). You can complete your
quarantine in your room in the Düsseldorf student dorm (status: September
2020). Please note that you have to organise the time spent in quarantine
yourself, e.g., ordering food, drinks and, if necessary, medications through
online ordering services in a contact-free way. After the quarantine period
ends, you have to get tested for corona again. If the result of your test is
positive, the [public health
office](https://corona.duesseldorf.de/zielgruppen/infizierte/quarantane) will
inform you about the next steps.

Erasmus and exchange students who cannot or do not want to commence their
planned studies or who want to cancel their studies at HHU due to the current
situation should please . Students who want to obtain a degree at HHU should
send any questions by .

If you have general questions about starting your studies, please .

Information for students with disabilities or chronic illnesses

## Information for students with disabilities or chronic illnesses

The Information Centre for Students with Disabilities or Chronic Illnesses (
_Beratungsstelle für Studierende mit Behinderung oder chronischen
Erkrankungen_ , BBST) will give you support and advice for questions regarding
your studies. [Here you can find the latest information on the counselling
centre's office hours and services](https://www.uni-
duesseldorf.de/home/universitaet/strukturen/beauftragte-und-
koordinierungsstellen/beauftragter-fuer-studierende-mit-behinderungen-und-
chronischen-erkrankungen.html).

In the brochure [„Low-barrier digital teaching for
students“](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/studierende-
barrierearm-HHU-EN.pdf) [PDF document] you can find more information on low-
barrier teaching particularly with regard to students with disabilities or
chronic diseases.

Faculty information

## Faculty information

  * [Faculty of Law](https://www.jura.hhu.de/en.html)
  * [Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences](http://www.math-nat-fak.hhu.de/en.html)
  * [Faculty of Medicine](http://www.medizin.hhu.de/en.html)
  * [Faculty of Arts and Humanities](http://www.philo.hhu.de/en.html)
  * [Faculty of Business Administration and Economics](http://www.wiwi.hhu.de/en.html)

* * *

## Still have questions?

For further topics around lecture which you did not find in the information,
please refer to the .

For all other questions, please send an e-mail to .

Responsible for the content:

  * [Contact](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/contact-and-services)
  * [Imprint](https://www.hhu.de/en/imprint)
  * [Privacy statement](https://www.hhu.de/datenschutzerklaerung)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.hhu.de/erklaerung-zur-barrierefreiheit)
  * [Emergency](https://www.hhu.de/en/emergency-1)
  * [ Press](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/press-and-marketing/press-contact-persons)

© 2021 Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

© 2021

Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

  * [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
  * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/ "LinkedIn")
  * [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw "YouTube")
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
  * [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

To the top

_Open search Close search_

Search

Open quick-navigation of this siteClose quick-navigation of this site

