[Jump to content](for-lecturers.html#content)[Resources and assistance for
online teaching](for-lecturers.html#c452910)[Information pages of
faculties](for-lecturers.html#c452911)[Exams](for-lecturers.html#c452908)[Room
bookings](for-lecturers.html#c452909)[Main points for lecturers in brief](for-
lecturers.html#c438668)[Lecturers](for-lecturers.html#c452917)[Still have
questions?](for-lecturers.html#c439228)[Main points for lecturers in
brief](for-lecturers.html#c438667)[Traceability](for-lecturers.html#c0)

  * [DE](../fuer-lehrende.html)
  * EN
  * |[Intranet](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/ "Intranet")
  * |[Portals](https://portale.hhu.de "Portals")
  * |[ULB-Katalog](https://katalog.ulb.hhu.de "ULB-Katalog")

  * [](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
  * [](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/ "LinkedIn")
  * [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw "YouTube")
  * [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
  * [](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

[![Logo Heinrich-Heine-Universität
Düsseldorf](https://www.corona.hhu.de/typo3conf/ext/wiminno/Resources/Public/img/hhu_logo.png)](https://www.hhu.de/en/)

[![Logo Heinrich-Heine-Universität
Düsseldorf](https://www.corona.hhu.de/typo3conf/ext/wiminno/Resources/Public/img/hhu_logo_mobil.png)](https://www.hhu.de)

Willkommen!

  * [HHU information on coronavirus](index.html)
    * [Information ...](index.html)
    * [for students](for-students.html)
    * [for lecturers](for-lecturers.html)
    * [for employees](for-employees.html)
    * [on research](research.html)
    * [on university operations](university-operations.html)
    * [on COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy)

[](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
[](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/
"LinkedIn") [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw
"YouTube") [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
[](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

  * [DE](../fuer-lehrende.html)
  * EN
  * |[Intranet](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/ "Intranet")
  * |[Portals](https://portale.hhu.de "Portals")
  * |[ULB-Katalog](https://katalog.ulb.hhu.de "ULB-Katalog")

  * [Contact](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/contact-and-services)
  * [Imprint](https://www.hhu.de/en/imprint)
  * [Privacy statement](https://www.hhu.de/datenschutzerklaerung)
  * [Barrierefreiheit](https://www.hhu.de/en/erklaerung-zur-barrierefreiheit)
  * [Emergency](https://www.hhu.de/en/emergency-1)
  * [ Press](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/press-and-marketing/press-contact-persons)

© 2021 Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

  * HHU information on coronavirus

[To homepage: HHU information on coronavirus](index.html)

    * [Information ...](index.html)
    * [for students](for-students.html)
    * [for lecturers](for-lecturers.html)
    * [for employees](for-employees.html)
    * [on research](research.html)
    * [on university operations](university-operations.html)
    * [on COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy)

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACwAAAAAAQABAAA=)

[HHU](https://www.hhu.de/en/)[HHU information on coronavirus](index.html)
**for lecturers**

# Lecturers

## Main points for lecturers in brief

  * As a rule, in-person lectures are not allowed. Wherever possible, classes will take place online until the end of the lecture period, Laboratory placements and practical courses can only take place on campus in exceptional cases and after authorisation by the responsible dean of studies.
  * Oral exams must take place online.
  * Planned exams and re-scheduled exams may only take place in person after authorisation of the responsible dean of studies.  
  * Final theses/projects may continue and can continue to be registered, provided that they either do not require on-campus presence, or that the laboratory work is in preparation of or an integral part of an examination and that it was approved by the responsible supervisor. Final theses/projects that require laboratory work but where exam-related preparation have not begun yet, cannot take place and cannot be registered at the time being.
  * For details regarding opening hours, access and available services of the University and State library, please check their website: [www.ulb.hhu.de](http://www.ulb.hhu.de).
  * A simple face covering must be worn everywhere on HHU campus as well as all inside all buildings used by HHU. Please observe further specifications on the ‘employees’ website and in the ‘patient care’ sections.
  * The rectorate has adopted [ new regulations that specify the Corona Pandemic Ordinance](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/ZUV/Justitiariat/Amtliche_Bekanntmachungen/2020/2020_12_10_AB_66.pdf). These regulations provide more or less university-wide specification for topics such as flexible teaching and examination formats, withdrawal from examinations and additional attempts at taking an examination during the coronavirus pandemic.  

Last updated: 01 February 2021: dates and deadlines; teaching and studying;
examinations

## Lecturers

## [ Dates ](for-lecturers.html#)

### Dates

 [Last updated: 01 February 2021]

You can find all dates and potential changes under [dates and
deadlines](https://www.hhu.de/en/studies/organising-your-studies/translate-to-
english-vorlesungszeiten).

The phase of written examinations following the winter semester is four weeks
long, from 15 February to 12 March 2021. The phase of written examinations
before summer semester 2021 is planned to take place from 22 March to 09 April
2021 (over the Easter holidays 2021: from 02 to 05 April 2021). 

## [ Teaching activities and studies ](for-lecturers.html#)

** ** [Last updated: 01 February 2021]

The following framework conditions regarding teaching and studying at HHU will
be in effect until the end of the lecture period on 12 February 2021.The next
NRW government decision round regarding coronavirus restrictions for higher
education institutions is scheduled to take place in February. As before, the
Taskforce Lehre will then immediately discuss the decisions‘ implementation
and inform you about possible changes as soon as possible. Please note that
these ordinances and decrees concerning university operations are not always
available immediately and that therefore their implementation at HHU can only
take place time-delayed. 

#### Lectures (01 February 2021)

As a rule, in-person lectures are not allowed. Wherever possible, classes will
continue to be taught online until the end of the lecture period. If required,
and after consulting the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences dean of
studies‘ office, lecturers may use selected lecture theatres for live online
lectures or to record lectures. 

Internships/laboratory placements and other practical activities may only then
take place on campus if alternatives, such as online teaching, re-scheduling
exams or a different type of substitute are not an option. What is more, the
lab placement/internship must be a mandatory component of a bachelor’s or
master’s degree or a mandatory requirement to register for the examination to
obtain a state examination degree. As a general rule, the minimum distance of
1.5m between all persons present must be maintained in the case of on-campus
laboratory placements at all times. Advanced contact tracing is no longer
possible. A medical face mask must be worn. Also, laboratory placements and
other practical activities must be authorised by the responsible dean of
studies. 

Persons from areas which have adopted restrictions to the freedom of movement
may travel to HHU to attend in-person classes, internships/lab placements or
examinations. If this applies to you, please contact the registrar’s office
(Studierenden- und Prüfungsverwaltung) in case of questions.

#### Examinations (01 February 2021)

Please see item ‚examinations‘ to find out more about the regulations in place
regarding written and oral examinations and final theses/papers. 

The study rooms on campus which had been set up to enable participation in
online classes, remain closed. Students are advised to only come to campus for
examinations and to attend one of the few in-person classes. 

#### Central institutions (01 February 2021)

ULB’s service will also be reduced. Please use ULB’s extensive digital
services. You can only access ULB to pick up pre-requested media or to return
media. More detailed information about service hours, access and request
services available can be found on ULB’s website
([www.ulb.hhu.de](http://www.ulb.hhu.de)). The current regulations do not
allow for the use of the non-lending collection.

## [ Traceability ](for-lecturers.html#)

## Traceability

[Last updated: 15 January 2021]

For the collection of the data you can use [ this
form](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Vordruck_Rueckverfolgbarkeit_v4.pdf).

The corresponding date protection information [ can be found here in
German](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Informationsblatt_Datenschutzhinweise_Kontaktnachverfolgung_2020-10-13.pdf)
and [ in
English](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Informationsblatt_Datenschutzhinweise_Kontaktnachverfolgung_2020-10-13_GB.pdf).

## [ Exams ](for-lecturers.html#)

## Exams

[Last updated on: 01 February 2021]

#### HHU regulations in specification of the coronavirus epidemic higher
education ordinance

The rectorate has passed university-wide regulations regarding flexible
teaching and examination formats, withdrawal regulations and additional exam
attempts in winter semester 2020/21. They are based on NRW statutory ordinance
(coronavirus epidemic higher education ordinance). You can [ download the most
recent regulations
here](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/ZUV/Justitiariat/Amtliche_Bekanntmachungen/2020/2020_12_10_AB_66.pdf).

In addition to this, the individual prescribed period of study for students
who have been enrolled in winter semester 2020/2021 will be extended by one
semester, a continuation of the summer semester 2020 regulations.

#### Written exams (01 February 2021)

Written in-person exams are, as a rule, not permitted. They may only take
place if the exam has been planned following a pre-determined schedule and an
alternative format or re-scheduling the exam is not an option. In addition to
that, the exam must be a mandatory component of a bachelor’s or master’s
examination or a mandatory requirement to register for the examination to
obtain a state examination degree. The necessity to have in-person written
exams despite the ongoing pandemic and under strict observance of the hygiene
and social distancing rules is based on the wish to enable HHU students to
obtain a regular and recognised degree.

In-person written exams will take place exclusively in lecture theatres or
other well-ventilated rooms. All hygiene and social distancing rules must be
observed during in-person exams. This includes the mandatory wearing of a
medical face mask throughout the duration of the exam. Please bring your own
medical face mask and wear it from the time you enter the building until the
time you leave it, this includes the time you are writing the exam. 

Persons from areas which have adopted restrictions to the freedom of movement
may travel to HHU to attend in-person classes, internships/lab placements or
examinations. If this applies to you, please contact the registrar’s office
(Studierenden- und Prüfungsverwaltung) in case of questions.

Dates for written examinations set to take place from February will remain as
they are for the time being. Please check whether an alternative format, one
that does not require on-campus presence, is an option.

In principle, online exams are permissible for all study programmes at
present. Based on the NRW coronavirus epidemic ordinance, HHU has passed
university-wide guidelines which are currently specified in the individual
faculties. If you want to hold an online exam, you will [find more information
and tips in this guide](https://www.philo.hhu.de/schon-da/lehrende/leitfaden-
online-klausuren).

#### Exam viewings (01 February 2021)

Exam viewings should take place online, if possible. In well-founded
exceptions, exam viewings can take place in person for those students who have
failed their exam. It must be authorised by the respective dean of study and
take place in strict observance of the general hygiene regulations. To this
aim, the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences [ has compiled
guidelines](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Fakultaeten/Mathematisch-
Naturwissenschaftliche_Fakultaet/Dekanat/Dokumente/MNF-
Empfehlungen_zur_Durchfuehrung_von_Klausureinsichten.pdf).

#### Oral exams

Oral exams must take place online. This also applies to doctoral defences.
Details will be managed by the faculties. 

Please see these guidlines on [how to conduct online video
exams](https://www.philo.hhu.de/schon-da/lehrende/leitfaden-online-
videopruefungen).

#### Final theses and projects

Final theses or projects may continue and can continue to be registered,
provided that they either do not require on-campus presence or that the
laboratory work is in preparation of or an integral part of an examination and
provided that the lab practice has already begun and that its continuation has
been approved by the respective supervisor. Final theses/projects that require
laboratory practice but where the lab practice has not started yet, cannot
take place and cannot be registered at the time being.  

## [ Resources and assistance for online teaching ](for-lecturers.html#)

## Resources and assistance for online teaching

[Updated on: 15 January 2021]

#### HHU e-learning portal

To find out more about e-learning and for other helpful links surrounding
online teaching, check the [central e-learning
website](https://www.elearning.hhu.de/en/). Every Wednesday from 1.30pm to
2.30pm our e-learning experts will answer any questions you might have in the
[e-learning consultation hour on
Rocket.Chat](https://rocketchat.hhu.de/channel/elearning-sprechstunde).

#### Lecture recordings

Microphone systems and connections are available in all of HHU’s lecture
theatres. These systems make it possible to record in-person lectures as
screencasts or to be streamed live via webex on the lecturer’s computer to
students who attend the lecture live online. For more detailed information
regarding the required technical equipment and its use, [please check this HHU
wiki site](https://wiki.hhu.de/pages/viewpage.action?pageld=218072271). The
screencasts produced in the lecture theatre can then be made available via
HHU’s _Mediathek_ and be integrated into the ILIAS learning platform. 

In the scope of a pilot project, recorders have been installed in lecture
theatres 3A, 3D, 5C, 5L, 6K und 6L, which make it possible to record
presentations and sound with your own USB stick. Cameras can be connected to
these recorders, too. 

Generally, when live streaming and recording lectures, copyright law in
teaching, data protection and personal rights of the participants must be
taken into account. Information about this can be found e.g. [on the Legal
Department’s websites](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/en/zentrale-
universitaetsverwaltung/stabsstellen/stabsstelle-justitiariat/informationen-
zum-urheberrecht) and [on the website of the Data Protection
Unit](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/organisation-and-bodies/central-
university-administration/staff-units/staff-unit-data-protection).

## [ Room bookings ](for-lecturers.html#)

## Room bookings

[Updated on: 18 December 2020]

Room bookings for centrally managed rooms will be coordinated centrally until
further notice and can only be booked  after consultation with the deans of
studies’ offices or the room booking management.

## [ Information pages of faculties ](for-lecturers.html#)

## Information pages of faculties

  * [Faculty of Law](https://www.jura.hhu.de/corona)
  * [Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences](http://www.math-nat-fak.hhu.de/en.html)
  * [Faculty of Medicine](http://www.medizin.hhu.de/en.html)
  * [Faculty of Arts and Humanities](http://www.philo.hhu.de/en.html)
  * [Faculty of Business Administration and Economics](http://www.wiwi.hhu.de/en.html)

* * *

## Still have questions?

For any further questions please send an e-mail to .  




Responsible for the content:

  * [Contact](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/contact-and-services)
  * [Imprint](https://www.hhu.de/en/imprint)
  * [Privacy statement](https://www.hhu.de/datenschutzerklaerung)
  * [Barrierefreiheit](https://www.hhu.de/en/erklaerung-zur-barrierefreiheit)
  * [Emergency](https://www.hhu.de/en/emergency-1)
  * [ Press](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/press-and-marketing/press-contact-persons)

© 2021 Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

© 2021

Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

[](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
[](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/
"LinkedIn") [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw
"YouTube") [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
[](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

Search

