[Jump to content](research.html#content)[Information for international
scientists/researchers and visiting
scientists/researchers](research.html#c452943)[Information for doctoral
students, doctoral supervisors, postdocs, young scientist group leaders and
assistant professors](research.html#c452944)[Congress trips and project
meetings (business trips)](research.html#c452945)[Working in laboratories
under COVID-19 conditions](research.html#c452941)[Coronavirus-related
information of funding organisations](research.html#c452942) [Main points for
research in brief](research.html#c438673)["Research" topic
group](research.html#c452951) [Still have
questions?](research.html#c439236)[Main points for research in
brief](research.html#c438672)

  * [DE](../zur-forschung.html)
  * EN
  * |[Intranet](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/ "Intranet")
  * |[Portals](https://portale.uni-duesseldorf.de "Portals")

  * [](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
  * [](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/ "LinkedIn")
  * [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw "YouTube")
  * [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
  * [](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

[![Logo Heinrich-Heine-Universität
Düsseldorf](https://www.corona.hhu.de/typo3conf/ext/wiminno/Resources/Public/img/hhu_logo.png)](https://www.hhu.de/en/)

[![Logo Heinrich-Heine-Universität
Düsseldorf](https://www.corona.hhu.de/typo3conf/ext/wiminno/Resources/Public/img/hhu_logo_mobil.png)](https://www.hhu.de)

Willkommen!

  * [HHU information on coronavirus](index.html)
    * [Information ...](index.html)
    * [for students](for-students.html)
    * [for lecturers](for-lecturers.html)
    * [on research](research.html)
    * [for employees](for-employees.html)
    * [on university operations](university-operations.html)
      * [Handlungsleitfaden Gremienarbeit](zum-universitaetsbetrieb/standard-titel.html)
    * [on COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy)

[](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
[](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/
"LinkedIn") [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw
"YouTube") [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
[](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

  * [DE](../zur-forschung.html)
  * EN
  * |[Intranet](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/ "Intranet")
  * |[Portals](https://portale.uni-duesseldorf.de "Portals")

  * [Contact](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/contact-and-services)
  * [Imprint](https://www.hhu.de/en/imprint)
  * [Privacy statement](https://www.hhu.de/datenschutzerklaerung)
  * [Barrierefreiheit](https://www.hhu.de/en/erklaerung-zur-barrierefreiheit)
  * [Emergency](https://www.hhu.de/en/emergency-1)
  * [ Press](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/press-and-marketing/press-contact-persons)

© 2020 Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

  * HHU information on coronavirus

[To homepage: HHU information on coronavirus](index.html)

    * [Information ...](index.html)
    * [for students](for-students.html)
    * [for lecturers](for-lecturers.html)
    * [on research](research.html)
    * [for employees](for-employees.html)
    * [on university operations](university-operations.html)
      * [Handlungsleitfaden Gremienarbeit](zum-universitaetsbetrieb/standard-titel.html)
    * [on COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy)

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACwAAAAAAQABAAA=)

[HHU](https://www.hhu.de/en/)[HHU information on coronavirus](index.html) **on
research**

# Research

## Main points for research in brief

Last updated: 04 November 2020: information about business trips and project
meetings and info sheet on hygiene measures in the context of lab research
work.

## "Research" topic group

## [ Working in laboratories under COVID-19 conditions ](research.html#)

## Working in laboratories under COVID-19 conditions

[Last updated: 04 November 2020]

_Laboratory and working group leaders who work in health care should give
priority to any information provided by UKD._

Here you will find the leaflet describing hygiene measures in connection with
research work in laboratories: [ download
PDF](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Merkblatt_Laborbetrieb_04-11-20_Eng.pdf)
(as of 04 November 2020).

## [ Coronavirus-related information of funding organisations
](research.html#)

## Coronavirus-related information of funding organisations

[Coronavirus-related information of sponsoring
organisations](https://www.forschung.uni-duesseldorf.de/en/funding-
organizations-and-corona)

[Sites of research management](https://www.forschung.uni-duesseldorf.de/en/)

[Coronavirus-related information regarding the
_Wissenschaftszeitvertragsgesetz_
(WissZeitVG)](https://www.bmbf.de/de/karrierewege-fuer-den-wissenschaftlichen-
nachwuchs-an-hochschulen-verbessern-1935.html)

## [ Information for international scientists/researchers and visiting
scientists/researcherss ](research.html#)

## Information for international scientists/researchers and visiting
scientists/researchers

[Last updated: 02 November 2020]

International employees at HHU can contact the Junior Scientist and
International Researcher Center (JUNO) at any time for [support with all
administrative queries and queries related to residency
law](https://www.hhu.de/internationales/internationale-forschende/welcome-
center).

Guest scientists should consult with their guest institute on postponing their
research visit, as they may have to go into quarantine after entering Germany
and research activity at HHU at present can be subject to restrictions. For
further information, please [contact the Junior Scientist and International
Researcher Center (JUNO)](https://www.hhu.de/internationales/internationale-
forschende/welcome-center).

For up-to-date information on the regulations for entering Germany, please
[check this page](http://www.juno.hhu.de/covid19-entry).





## [ Information for doctoral students, doctoral supervisors, postdocs, young
scientist group leaders and assistant professors ](research.html#)

## Information for doctoral students, doctoral supervisors, postdocs, young
scientist group leaders and assistant professors

[Last updated: 02 November 2020]

### Faculty of Law

[General information](http://jura.hhu.de/corona)

### Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences

[General information](http://www.math-nat-fak.hhu.de/fakultaetsspezifische-
informationen-zum-coronavirus-sars-cov-2.html)

[Doctoral Studies Office](http://www.math-nat-fak.hhu.de/promotion.html)

[iGRAD - Interdisciplinary Graduate and Research Academy
Düsseldorf](http://www.igrad.hhu.de/en/corona-info.html)

### Faculty of Medicine

[General information](http://www.medizin.hhu.de)

[medRSD - Medical Research School
Düsseldorf](http://www.medizin.hhu.de/graduiertenzentrum/coronavirus-
information-fuer-promovierende.html)

### Faculty of Arts and Humanities

[General
information](http://www.philo.hhu.de/servicecenter/aktuelltermine/fakultaet-
aktuell-topmeldungen.html)

[Doctoral Studies Office](http://www.philo.hhu.de/promotion.html)

[philGRAD - Graduate Academy of the Faculty of Arts and
Humanities](http://www.philgrad.hhu.de)

### Faculty of Business Administration and Economics

[General information](http://www.wiwi.hhu.de/servicecenter/aktuelles/aktuelle-
meldungen.html)

### Junior Scientist and International Researcher Center (JUNO)

[Offering for postdocs, young scientist group leaders, assistant
professors](http://www.juno.hhu.de/en/events-and-courses.html)

### Heine Research Academies (HeRA)

[Emergency help in connection with the coronavirus situation for doctoral
students and postdocs](https://www.hera.hhu.de/en/hera-travel-grants/corona-
emergency-grants.html)

## [ Congress trips and project meetings (business trips) ](research.html#)

## Congress trips and project meetings (business trips)

Business travel and the corresponding requests will be approved depending on
the travel warnings issued by the German Federal Government, which can be
found [here](https://www.auswaertiges-amt.de/de/ReiseUndSicherheit/reise-
gesundheit/gesundheit-fachinformationen/reisemedizinische-
hinweise/Coronavirus).

 In light of the infection’s dynamic nature, business trips to high-risk areas
are currently banned. This business travel ban also extends to districts
(‚Kreis‘) and towns independent of a ‚Kreis‘ within Germany with an incidence
value  ≥ 50. This also means that any approvals of business trips can be
revoked in cases where after the time of approval but before the beginning of
the trip a travel warning is issued for that destination.    

In this context, the following must be observed:

  1. Business travel should be limited to inevitable trips. 
  2. We would like to explicitly point out the decision of the German Federal Government that it will not undertake another mission to bring back German tourists stranded abroad. We would also like to point out that it is in each applicant’s responsibility to comply with the entry regulations of their respective travel destination.
  3. Business travel to countries where a period of quarantine after entering or returning from that country is required is not permitted.
  4. Business travel regulations of the Düsseldorf University Hospital (UKD) apply for all Faculty of Medicine staff due to the (potential) impact on the health care situation.

Please check the [Personnel Department’s website](http://Link) for further
information on business trips (Intranet).

* * *

## Still have questions?

If you still have questions that haven’t been answered here, please send an
e-mail to the  




Responsible for the content:

  * [Contact](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/contact-and-services)
  * [Imprint](https://www.hhu.de/en/imprint)
  * [Privacy statement](https://www.hhu.de/datenschutzerklaerung)
  * [Barrierefreiheit](https://www.hhu.de/en/erklaerung-zur-barrierefreiheit)
  * [Emergency](https://www.hhu.de/en/emergency-1)
  * [ Press](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/press-and-marketing/press-contact-persons)

© 2020 Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

© 2020

Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

[](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
[](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/
"LinkedIn") [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw
"YouTube") [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
[](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

Search

