[Jump to content](university-operations.html#content)[Committee
work](university-operations.html#c453005)[Events, conferences,
workshops](university-operations.html#c453006)[Closure of
buildings](university-operations.html#c453007)[Video conferences and online
teaching](university-operations.html#c453008)[Warning: Hackers exploit fear of
coronavirus!](university-operations.html#c453009)[Information on University
operations](university-operations.html#c438674)[Main points for university
operations in brief](university-operations.html#c438676)[University
operations](university-operations.html#c453016)[Still have
questions?](university-operations.html#c439220)[Main points for university
operations in brief](university-operations.html#c438675)

  * [DE](../zum-universitaetsbetrieb.html)
  * EN
  * |[Intranet](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/ "Intranet")
  * |[Portals](https://portale.uni-duesseldorf.de "Portals")

  * [](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
  * [](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/ "LinkedIn")
  * [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw "YouTube")
  * [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
  * [](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

[![Logo Heinrich-Heine-Universität
Düsseldorf](https://www.corona.hhu.de/typo3conf/ext/wiminno/Resources/Public/img/hhu_logo.png)](https://www.hhu.de/en/)

[![Logo Heinrich-Heine-Universität
Düsseldorf](https://www.corona.hhu.de/typo3conf/ext/wiminno/Resources/Public/img/hhu_logo_mobil.png)](https://www.hhu.de)

Willkommen!

  * [HHU information on coronavirus](index.html)
    * [Information ...](index.html)
    * [for students](for-students.html)
    * [for lecturers](for-lecturers.html)
    * [on research](research.html)
    * [for employees](for-employees.html)
    * [on university operations](university-operations.html)
      * [Guidelines for committee work](university-operations/translate-to-english-handlungsleitfaden-gremienarbeit.html)
    * [on COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy)

[](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
[](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/
"LinkedIn") [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw
"YouTube") [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
[](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

  * [DE](../zum-universitaetsbetrieb.html)
  * EN
  * |[Intranet](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/ "Intranet")
  * |[Portals](https://portale.uni-duesseldorf.de "Portals")

  * [Contact](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/contact-and-services)
  * [Imprint](https://www.hhu.de/en/imprint)
  * [Privacy statement](https://www.hhu.de/datenschutzerklaerung)
  * [Barrierefreiheit](https://www.hhu.de/en/erklaerung-zur-barrierefreiheit)
  * [Emergency](https://www.hhu.de/en/emergency-1)
  * [ Press](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/press-and-marketing/press-contact-persons)

© 2020 Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

  * HHU information on coronavirus

[To homepage: HHU information on coronavirus](index.html)

    * [Information ...](index.html)
    * [for students](for-students.html)
    * [for lecturers](for-lecturers.html)
    * [on research](research.html)
    * [for employees](for-employees.html)
    * [on university operations](university-operations.html)
      * [Guidelines for committee work](university-operations/translate-to-english-handlungsleitfaden-gremienarbeit.html)
    * [on COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy)

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACwAAAAAAQABAAA=)

[HHU](https://www.hhu.de/en/)[HHU information on coronavirus](index.html) **on
university operations**

# University operations

## Information on University operations

## Main points for university operations in brief

  * A simple face covering must be worn everywhere on HHU campus as well as all inside all buildings used by HHU. The only exceptions are for lecturers during their lectures, provided that the minimum distance of 1.5m to other persons can be maintained, and for employees in their own workspace, provided that the required hygiene measures (e.g. a minimum distance of 1.5m to other persons or separated by (acrylic) glass) can be maintained there.
  * The main entrances of all buildings (except for ULB and SSC – see special opening hours) are open Monday – Friday from 06:30am to 8pm, in accordance with HHU’s house rules.
  * [Haus der Universität and Schloss Mickeln](https://www.hhu.de/en/news/veranstaltungen-im-haus-der-universitaet-wieder-moeglich) are closed to the public until the end of the year.
  * From 26 October on, the main canteen (‚Mensa‘) will be open daily from 11:30am – 2pm and offer a limited choice of meals. If you wish to eat there you must book a seat up to 48 hours in advance via [the Studierendenwerk website](https://www.stw-d.de/).

Last updated: 03 November 2020: Main points for university operations in
brief.

## University operations

## [ Committee work ](university-operations.html#)

## Committee work

[Updated on: 10 November 2020]

Guidelines for conducting internal university committee meetings (e.g. faculty
councils, boards, appointment committees, et.al.) and for elections during the
time of limited operations at HHU.

[ To the guidelines (PDF
Download)](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Handlungsleitfaden_Stand_November2020_eng.pdf)  


## [ Events, conferences, workshops ](university-operations.html#)

## Events, conferences, workshops

[Last updated: 02 November 2020]

Research conferences, workshops and similar events can take place on campus if
the necessary hygiene and infection prevention regulations are observed
(compare § 2-4b of the Corona Epidemic Ordinance of 30 October 2020) and
provided they are organised by full or associated members of HHU. External
events cannot take place until further notice.

The _Haus der Universität_ and _Schloss Mickeln_ are closed to the public
until the end of the year; please [click here for more detailed
information](https://www.hhu.de/en/news/haus-der-universitaet-wieder-
geoeffnet).

## [ Closure of buildings ](university-operations.html#)

## Closure of buildings

[Updated on: 15 May 2020]

The entrance doors to buildings used for the examinations and laboratory
placements are open from 13 May, 8am – 3.30pm, Monday-Friday:

**Main entrance 22.01 – Access via level 00 to the lecture theatres 2A - E**

**Main entrance 16.12 - Access via level 00 to lecture theatre 16.12**

**Main entrance 23.01 - Access via level 00 to the lecture theatres 3A - D**

**Main entrance** **25.12 -** **Access via level** **00** **to the lecture
theatres** **5A - M**

**Entrance 25.21 -** **Access via level** **00** **to the lecture theatres**
**5A - F**

**Entrance 25.32 -** **Access via level** **00** **to the lecture theatres**
**5A - M**

**Main entrance** **26.11 -** **Access via level** **00** **to the lecture
theatres** **6A - C**

**Entrance 26.21 -** **Access via level** **00** **to the lecture theatres**
**6 D - F**

**Entrance 26.41 -** **Access via level** **00** **to the lecture theatres**
**6G – J**  
  
[Download: campus plan main and side entrances, extended opening of HHU
buildings](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/2020-05-11_Haupt-
_und_Nebeneingaenge_erweiterte_Gebaeudeoeffnung.pdf) (As of 13 May, PDF)

[Download: List of extended opening hours of buildings on
campus](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/PDF_2020-05-15_Erweiterte_OEffnungszeiten_Eng.pdf)
[](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/2020-05-15_Corona-
erweiterte_O__ffnungszeiten_der_Geba__ude.pdf)(As of 15 May 2020, PDF)

Please contact the HHU Servicepoint under 0211-81-11666 to request access to
the buildings outside the mentioned hours.

Opening hours of building 22.01 – according to bookings of lecture rooms (LSF)
by the UKD.  
  
All other external doors of HHU buildings remain locked. The doors can be
unlocked using your normal keys or transponder (in case of electronic locking
systems). If you have unlocked a door to get inside a building, please lock it
again after yourself. Other than that, there are no restrictions concerning
the operation of the buildings.

This also applies to buildings in the ‘22’ zone. Persons with an authorised
access card can still enter the buildings at any time.

## [ Video conferences and online teaching ](university-operations.html#)

## Video conferences and online teaching

[Updated on: 27 April 2020]

ZIM has put together a number of [software
tools](https://wiki.hhu.de/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=155157366), e.g. for
video conferences, online teaching and more.

ZIM recommends CISCO Webex for video conferences. You need a licence if you
want to invite others to a video conference. The licence can be obtained from
the ZIM help desk. Simply send them an  with the following information:

  * Full first and last name
  * Employee status of the applicant (e. g. professor, academic staff member, administrative staff ...)
  * Uni ID for verification of information
  * HHU e-mail address in the format firstname.lastname@hhu.de (if you’re not sure, please check on IDM)

As soon as you have been allocated a licence, you will receive an e-mail with
a link that activates your Webex account.  
More information is available on the [ZIM
pages](https://wiki.hhu.de/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=155157366) under item
6.

There are different experiences with the different providers of video
conference systems. Not all providers are able to guarantee data protection
and security to an equal measure. HHU mainly uses Webex by Cisco. ZIM and
University management recommend the use of this programme because it promises
the best data protection among the video conference cloud services currently
on the market. Several thousand licences of this programme have been purchased
and it is now used more frequently than other programmes. 

Zoom is currently the subject of much discussion. It works well, but the
user’s data are analysed intensely and there are a number of security gaps.
“It is currently difficult to assess Zoom in terms of data protection – and it
changes in a daily basis. This is why we recommend the use of Webex,” explains
HHU President Prof Dr Anja Steinbeck. This should not be seen as a strict ban
on Zoom: “There is no sufficient basis for this and a ban would mean
interference with academic freedom.”

[Further information and tips for organisers to ensure increased security of
video conferences (Intranet)](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/news-
detailansicht/article/zoom-oder-nicht-zoom.html).

## [ Hackers exploit fear of coronavirus ](university-operations.html#)

## Warning: Hackers exploit fear of coronavirus!

[Update: 22.04.2020]

As seen before in other crisis situations, cybercriminals try to take
advantage of people’s uncertainty in order to distribute malware. Allegedly on
behalf of the World Health Organization (WHO), e-mails have been sent out
which supposedly contain ‘coronavirus safety measures’ in the form of links or
attached documents. But in reality you will download malware on your computer
when you click on these links or open the attached files. Sometimes these
links will lead you to fake online shops that sell facemasks and disinfectants
to you at high costs but which you will never receive. Often hackers will also
try to steal personal data via e-mails such as the one informing you about an
alleged “unauthorized access to your Düsseldorf University roundcube e-mail
account” and asking you to click on a link to allegedly confirm you identity.

Please be wary when you receive unexpected e-mails of this kind and verify the
sender, their address and any links contained in the e-mail extra carefully.
Institutions that you have not previously been in touch with (e.g. WHO) will
not send e-mails to you. If you do not know the sender and have doubts about
the origin of the e-mail, do not click on any links or open attached files
under any circumstance!

Research and teaching seem particularly affected by the rising number of
malware attacks. Increasingly, Heinrich Heine University receives fake e-mails
which often claim to contain technical information. They look as if they were
sent by ZIM: you will, for example, receive the information about the above
mentioned “unauthorized access to your Düsseldorf University roundcube e-mail
account “, or an e-mail with “helpful updates” for working from home. ZIM will
never send you e-mails asking you to “confirm your identity” or e-mails of a
similar kind. Delete e-mails of this kind immediately.

[You can find further information and examples here.](https://www.uni-
duesseldorf.de/home/startseite/news-detailansicht-inkl-gb/article/kriminelle-
nutzen-corona-als-trittbrett.html)

* * *

## Still have questions?

If you still have questions that haven’t been answered here, please send an
e-mail to the .  




Responsible for the content:

  * [Contact](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/contact-and-services)
  * [Imprint](https://www.hhu.de/en/imprint)
  * [Privacy statement](https://www.hhu.de/datenschutzerklaerung)
  * [Barrierefreiheit](https://www.hhu.de/en/erklaerung-zur-barrierefreiheit)
  * [Emergency](https://www.hhu.de/en/emergency-1)
  * [ Press](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/press-and-marketing/press-contact-persons)

© 2020 Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

© 2020

Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

[](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
[](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/
"LinkedIn") [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw
"YouTube") [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
[](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

Search

