[Jump to content](standard-titel.html#content)[Guidelines for committee
work](standard-titel.html#c475517)

  * [DE](../../zum-universitaetsbetrieb/standard-titel.html)
  * EN
  * |[Intranet](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/ "Intranet")
  * |[Portals](https://portale.uni-duesseldorf.de "Portals")

  * [](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
  * [](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/ "LinkedIn")
  * [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw "YouTube")
  * [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
  * [](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

[![Logo Heinrich-Heine-Universität
Düsseldorf](https://www.corona.hhu.de/typo3conf/ext/wiminno/Resources/Public/img/hhu_logo.png)](https://www.hhu.de/en/)

[![Logo Heinrich-Heine-Universität
Düsseldorf](https://www.corona.hhu.de/typo3conf/ext/wiminno/Resources/Public/img/hhu_logo_mobil.png)](https://www.hhu.de)

Willkommen!

  * [HHU information on coronavirus](../index.html)
    * [Information ...](../index.html)
    * [for students](../for-students.html)
    * [for lecturers](../for-lecturers.html)
    * [on research](../research.html)
    * [for employees](../for-employees.html)
    * [on university operations](../university-operations.html)
      * [Guidelines for committee work](../university-operations/translate-to-english-handlungsleitfaden-gremienarbeit.html)
    * [on COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy)

[](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
[](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/
"LinkedIn") [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw
"YouTube") [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
[](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

  * [DE](../../zum-universitaetsbetrieb/standard-titel.html)
  * EN
  * |[Intranet](https://www.mitarbeiter.hhu.de/ "Intranet")
  * |[Portals](https://portale.uni-duesseldorf.de "Portals")

  * [Contact](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/contact-and-services)
  * [Imprint](https://www.hhu.de/en/imprint)
  * [Privacy statement](https://www.hhu.de/datenschutzerklaerung)
  * [Barrierefreiheit](https://www.hhu.de/en/erklaerung-zur-barrierefreiheit)
  * [Emergency](https://www.hhu.de/en/emergency-1)
  * [ Press](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/press-and-marketing/press-contact-persons)

© 2020 Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

  * HHU information on coronavirus

[To homepage: HHU information on coronavirus](../index.html)

    * [Information ...](../index.html)
    * [for students](../for-students.html)
    * [for lecturers](../for-lecturers.html)
    * [on research](../research.html)
    * [for employees](../for-employees.html)
    * [on university operations](../university-operations.html)
      * [Guidelines for committee work](../university-operations/translate-to-english-handlungsleitfaden-gremienarbeit.html)
    * [on COVID-19, Suspected and confirmed cases, Hygiene policy](https://www.corona.hhu.de/en/covid-19-suspected-and-confirmed-cases-hygiene-policy)

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACwAAAAAAQABAAA=)

[HHU](https://www.hhu.de/en/)[HHU information on
coronavirus](../index.html)[on university operations](../university-
operations.html) **Guidelines for committee work**

# Guidelines for committee work

[Updated on: 05 November 2020]

#### I. Holding committee meetings

On the basis of the Higher Education Act NRW and the **latest versions** of
the   Corona Epidemic Ordinance, the Corona Epicemic Higher Education
Ordinance and the General Decree of the Ministry of Labour, Health and Social
Affairs) committee meetings are permitted again if the following is observed:

#### 1\. On-site meetings, i.e. members are physically present

Meetings of legally stipulated committees, i.e. all public (e.g. faculty
council) and non-public meetings remain permissible as meetings in personal
attendance if they cannot be held via telephone or video conference.

Having official internal meetings in which the participants are present in
person is also permissible because they contribute to maintaining public
safety and order.   

However, the following must be observed:

  * As a rule, no more than 20 persons may attend a committee meeting. Also, the specifications defined by the Task Force must be followed, namely that in all HHU seminar and conference rooms the minimum space available for each person present of 8 m2 must be guaranteed.   
  * A meeting with more than 20 participants may only take place if there are compelling reasons why it has to take place in November 2020, why it has to take place on-campus and why the intended number of participants is required. The permit for such a meeting must be requested by the responsible regulatory authorities and the meeting must be approved by them before it can take place.   

The observation of all regulations regarding infection protection – adequate
provisions regarding hygiene and a minimum distance of 1.5 metres – must be
guaranteed as a rule in this type of meeting and wearing a textile face
covering, in particular, is mandatory. The minimum distance between persons of
1.5m may only be disregarded when the size of the room does not allow for the
seats to be arranged otherwise. Adequate ventilation of the room/regular
airing of the room must be guaranteed. 

For all events and assemblies, i.e. also for committee meetings, a **record of
every person present** must be kept. As a rule, ‘basic traceability’ is
sufficient . For this, each person must agree to have their name, address and
telephone number registered when attending such a meeting – in the case of
persons who are not regular attendees, such as guests, the time and length of
their stay must be noted down as well. This data must be secured from
unauthorized access and be deleted after four weeks. If the relevant data is
already available to the organisers, addresses and telephone number of the
participants do not have to be registered again. Upon request, the data must
be made accessible to the responsible authorities.

A particular traceability must be ensured when in a committee meeting the
minimum distance between cannot, as previously approved by the responsible
authority, be maintained. This is particular traceability is ensured when the
person responsible, in addition to collecting the above mentioned data, makes
a plan which shows clearly which participant sat in which seat. This seating
plan must also be kept for four weeks.

#### 2\. Meetings in electronic form, i.e. via video or telephone conference

According to section 5 (2) (1) clause 2 of the Corona Epidemic Higher
Education Ordinance, meetings of university committees can also take place
with the help of electronic communication, i.e.  via telephone or video
conference. Decisions can also be taken in this form. 

  
For reasons of date protection and service reliability, software other than
_Skype_ should be used, e.g. CISCO Webex-Meetings. [For more information on
video conference systems provided by HHU see
here](https://wiki.hhu.de/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=155157366). As the time
being, the technical requirements for secret voting at HHU are not yet in
place. 

**Public meetings** , such as faculty council meetings, senate meetings etc.,
can also take place electronically provided the public’s access to these
meetings is ensured. In this context, the following must be observed: 

• Appointment of a person responsible for the video or telephone conference
and the provision of login details and passwords

• Information about the date of the meeting in appropriate locations, e.g. via
announcements on campus and a notice on the homepage pointing out that
interested parties can obtain the necessary access data and the password from
the person in charge.

The Corona Epidemic Higher Education Ordinance, section 5 (3), explicitly
states that video and audio transmissions of the public committee sessions are
admissible. However, please note that secret ballots are not possible. 

#### 3\. Having meetings in a mixed form

Section 5 (1) no.3 of the Corona Epidemic Higher Education Ordinance
explicitly permits committee sessions which take place in a mix of physical
presence and electronic attendance. 

Passing resolutions in such a mixed form is also permissible, i.e. during such
‚mixed meetings‘ resolutions can be passed in a correspondingly mixed form.  

**Important:** **The decision as to which of the above mentioned form the
meeting should be held in is taken by the committee’s chairperson. In his or
her decision, the chairperson must take into account the legitimate interests
of the committee members in terms of infection protection.**

**The chairperson must also decide whether decisions are taken via circulation
procedure (see below), via electronic communication or in mixed forms of
communication of physical presence and electronic attendance.  **

#### II. Decision-making via written circulation procedure

According to section 5 (2) (1) clause 2 of the Corona Epidemic Higher
Educataion Ordinance, decisions can be taken via **written circulation
procedure**. The committee’s chairperson can send the respective draft
decision memo to the committee members by e-mail who will then return their
vote to him or her also by e-mail. For the written voting procedure it is
particularly important that in the draft decision the issue to be decided on
is sufficiently presented in all aspects that are essential for a decision.
Documents relevant for the decision can be sent together with the draft
decision by e-mail.

Regarding the decisions of the senate and the faculty council, whose meetings
are public under the Higher Education Act (Hochschulgesetz), and according to
section 5 (2) (2) of the Corona Epidemic Higher Education Ordinance, it must
be ensured that the public is informed about the decisions taken in the
circulation procedure via appropriate means, e.g. publishing the decisions on
the respective committee’s homepage. 

#### III. Presence of a quorum

Regarding the quorum of committees, section 5 (3) of the Corona Epidemic
Higher Education Ordinance stipulates that in principle a quorum is also
present when the meeting was duly called and when the turnout of the members
present, who either participate via electronic means or who are physically
present while observing all relevant regulations for infection prevention, is
less than half of the total vote of the committee.

However, this applies only under the **restricting condition** that the
turnout of the committee members present – either electronically or in person
– is at least one quarter of the committees’ votes; this might differ in cases
in which the University regulations provide for different solutions. 

This means that the Corona Epidemic Higher Education Ordinance – except in
cases where the University regulations differ – stipulate a **minimal
attendance of a quarter of the votes** of the members participating in the
meeting, either via electronic means or in person. 

#### 4\. Express decisions of the committee’s chairperson  

Finally, the Higher Education Act, in accordance with section 12 (4) (2),
allows for an **express decision of the committees’ chairperson** in matters
that cannot be postponed, i.e. in cases where a decision of the responsible
committee cannot be made in time. Prior to such an express decision, the
committee’s chairperson of course has the right to obtain an impression of the
committee members’ opinions via e-mail, telephone or video conference.
However, the chairperson should only make use of this possibility only very
restrictively and make sure that every single committee member is in fact
contacted in the event of such a pre-decision inquiry in order to ensure that
the decision cannot be contested.   
  
**Important** : Irrespective of the meeting’s format, all decisions must be
recorded in **decision minutes** as soon as possible after the end of the
meeting. 

#### V. Special cases

#### 1\. Special case: Secret ballot, in particular decisions on personnel
matters

Since the holding of meetings in personal attendance is now permitted again
(see above), consultations on personnel matters, which according to HHU’s
constitution must be held in secret, can again be held during these
meetings.   

I would like to point out that in case personnel matters have to be decided on
during meetings without physical attendance of the members, the technology
currently available at HHU does not allow for a secret ballot via video
conference.  

However, should meetings in personal attendance of the members not be wished,
e.g. due to the lack of means to comply with the recommended hygiene and
distancing regulations, decisions on personnel matters can be taken via
**written circulation procedure** , analogous to postal vote. For this
purpose, the committee’s chairperson sends a draft decision containing the
usual information on the matter to be decided on as well as markings for all
existing voting options to all members who are eligible to vote. This can be
done by e-mail. The committee members who are eligible to vote return the
decision paper with their vote marked in a neutral, previously unlabelled und
sealed envelope. In addition to that, the committee members who are eligible
to vote must send a written statement to the chairperson of the committee in
another envelope confirming that he or she has participated in the written
vote; the name of the sender must be visible on either the statement or the
envelope. A template for a corresponding statement is available as a pdf
document. A reasonable deadline must be set between the dispatch of the
documents and the response, but it must not exceed two weeks. 

The committee’s chairperson opens these letters in the presence of at least
one other person and records the results of the vote.

This procedure may be used for all secret ballots.

#### 2\. Special case: Appointments

Because appointment procedures take place in the committees in camera, compare
section 32, HHU Appointments Regulation, deliberations and decisions in
appointment committees are subject to the same framework conditions as
**committee meetings**.  

Teaching activities and examinations at universities remain possible when the
Infection Protection Act’s requirements are met. This means that in principle
trial lectures in connection with the appointment procedures can take place.
However, the specifications in the Ministry of Labour, Health and Social
Affairs’ general direction, dated 02 June 2020, must be observed.

In compliance with the most recent legal provisions, teaching and practical
activities are now offered in a digital format. This is why **trial
presentations** with discussions of the job applicants as part of the
selection process are now also possible via video conference. **It is
important however** , that all applicants participating in the same
appointment procedure perform under identical conditions, i.e. the same format
of the trial presentation. In this context, I would like to refer to HHU’s
appointment regulations, dated 25 July 2007. 

#### 3\. Special case: elections  

In principle, elections can only be held when the committee members who are
eligible to vote are present in person. Furthermore, it must be possible to
have a secret ballot, i.e. the ballot paper must be submitted anonymously.

Since the possibility of a postal vote is not provided for in all committees,
and also in cases where postal voting is possible but is not feasible in
practice due to the number of eligible voters, e.g. student committee
elections, it is possible that committee members cannot be elected in time
before the end of the current incumbents’ tenure. In this case, the current
incumbents are entitled, but also obliged, to continue to exercise their
office provisionally until an election is possible and completed. 

#### Templates for download

[ Written declaration for voting (pdf form to be filled
in)](https://www.corona.hhu.de/fileadmin/redaktion/Oeffentliche_Medien/Presse/Pressemeldungen/Dokumente/Coronavirus_2020/Formular_Abstimmung_Gremien.pdf)

Responsible for the content:

  * [Contact](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/contact-and-services)
  * [Imprint](https://www.hhu.de/en/imprint)
  * [Privacy statement](https://www.hhu.de/datenschutzerklaerung)
  * [Barrierefreiheit](https://www.hhu.de/en/erklaerung-zur-barrierefreiheit)
  * [Emergency](https://www.hhu.de/en/emergency-1)
  * [ Press](https://www.hhu.de/en/about-hhu/press-and-marketing/press-contact-persons)

© 2020 Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

© 2020

Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf

[](https://www.facebook.com/HHU.de/ "Facebook")
[](https://www.linkedin.com/school/heinrich-heine-universitat-dusseldorf/
"LinkedIn") [](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz78Aka2Ukfo2S5KfXApTiw
"YouTube") [](https://twitter.com/HHU_de "Twitter")
[](https://www.instagram.com/hhu_de/ "Instagram")

Search

